I was looking at the top 10 jobs that
are most likely to be disrupted by AI
and I really do worry about this.
>> So the nature of the economy is changing
for a long time. Blue collar work like
plumbers, electricians, brick layers has
been devalued. But it could be in the
next couple of years. These are the
roles that are elevated the most and
that plumbers regularly earn more than
lawyers. And for the last 25 years, I've
been building companies from scratch and
I've been through the global financial
crisis and co but I have never
experienced what we're experiencing
right now. I've never seen more fear for
the disruption that is coming. And my
real bare case for AI is that every time
you go on AI, your request is going off
to a big computer in a Walmartized
building somewhere. And those big
ginormous computers, they last 3 to 4
years before they need to be replaced.
And this year ahead, we're going to
spend 650 billion and that could cause a
massive financial collapse. That's the
thing that I'm worried most about.
However, I've never seen more excitement
for the opportunities that are in front
of us. So let's talk about in a world of
AI what are the skills that survive.
>> So I really believe that everyone should
build a little bit of a personal brand
not like to become an influencer but
position yourself with a group of people
who know who you are and know what you
do and could enroll you in their
opportunity. Second one if there's one
skill set that everyone should be
learning at the moment it's how do
entrepreneurs think? How do
entrepreneurs behave? What are the
skills that make an entrepreneur
successful? And entrepreneurs just
simply follow six steps and we do it
over and over and over again. and we'll
go through the six steps.
>> So, are there any particular
opportunities that you think that
anybody listening right now could pursue
to make money?
>> So, I think one of the best
opportunities is
>> that is such good advice that we don't
hear enough.
>> This is super interesting to me. My team
given me this report to show me how many
of you that watch this show subscribe.
69% of you that watch this show
frequently haven't yet hit the subscribe
button. And some of you have told us
according to this that you are
unsubscribed from the channel randomly.
So, favor to ask all of you. Please
could you check right now if you've hit
the subscribe button if you are a
regular viewer of the show and you like
what we do here. We're approaching quite
a significant landmark on this show in
terms of a subscriber number. So, if
there was one simple free thing that you
could do to help us, my team, everyone
here to keep this show free, to keep it
improving year over year and week over
week, it is just to hit that subscribe
button and to double check if you've hit
it. Only thing I'll ever ask of you, do
we have a deal? If you do it, I'll tell
you what I'll do. I'll make sure every
single week, every single month, we
fight harder and harder and harder and
harder to bring you the guests and
conversations that you want to hear.
I've stayed true to that promise since
the very beginning of the Dio and I will
not let you down. Please help us. Really
appreciate it. Let's get on with the
show.
Daniel, I think we're living in the most
interesting, opportunistic,
terrifying time to be an entrepreneur, a
professional, to really be anybody
because this is a moment of such
fundamental change. And I really wanted
to have this conversation with you today
because I want to understand how you're
thinking about AI from an opportunity
standpoint as an entrepreneur, but also
just for everybody that's working in a
normal job and who is at risk of having
their their career, their livelihood,
their identity, their qualifications
made redundant because there is now an
alien amongst us that can do so much. So
this conversation really is about giving
people answers. It's about being honest
with them about what's coming. And it's
about preparing them, setting them up so
that they have an advantage
in the face of the future we face. So
give me the 30,000 ft view.
>> Well, my background for the last 25
years has been building companies from
scratch. And I've been through the com
and I've been through global financial
crisis and I've been through uh Brexit
and co. I have never experienced what
we're experiencing right now. I've never
seen more excitement for the
opportunities that are in front of us
and I've never seen more fear for the
disruption that is coming. We are living
through transformational times that is
very similar to 250 years ago where the
end of the agricultural age ended and
the beginning of the industrial age
began.
>> I would argue that it's more significant
because there's two forces that kind of
keep me up at night. The first force is
AI, which is you can think of it as just
the replacement of the human brain from
a sort of productivity standpoint. And
then the other is robotics. And the
problem is they're coming in at the same
time. And I was watching I don't know if
you saw this the other day.
>> So I'll put this on the screen for
anyone that's watching the video right
now, but this is a demonstration that
took place in China of how advanced
their robots are. And I had to check
multiple times to make sure that this
wasn't fake. They are doing back flips
and landing perfectly on their feet. And
so when you combine intelligence with
the disruption of our physical form, our
muscles, our body, our ability to pick
things up and move them through through
time and space,
it begs the question like where do we
>> where do we fit in to all of that?
Strangely, there's something called the
Jevans paradox. And the Jevans paradox
is a paradox where when we think
something is going to completely disrupt
the way that we uh live and work. It
often has the opposite effect. We
thought that YouTube was going to
completely wipe out television. And it's
true that Hollywood lost tens of
thousands of jobs, but YouTubing created
500 to 600,000 jobs at the same time.
And it used to take 150 people to make a
a TV show or a movie. And now it's 5 to
10 people making YouTube videos as a
little team. and they can have a wildly
successful YouTube channel. With the
Jebans paradox, if we currently said
that in order to have a successful
software company right now today or in
the last few years, you needed to have
10,000 customers and you needed to have
a team of 50 people and you needed to
raise$1 to5 million to get a software
company off the off the ground. If all
of a sudden the cost and the commitment
drops dramatically to have a software
company and you only need 500 customers
to work it to make it work and you only
need two people on a team to make it
work and you only need a tiny bit of
funding to make it work. What happens is
like YouTube channels you can end up
with literally millions of tiny little
software businesses that are super
successful for 5 to 10 people and they
do something niche and they do something
special. They don't look like
traditional software companies either.
So a traditional software company would
just do the software whereas these
little software companies might do
software plus they might do dinner
parties where the clients get together.
They might have an annual ski retreat.
They might have a podcast and a YouTube
channel that goes with it. And all of
that could be done by 5 to 10 people
using AI tools. So the Jevans paradox
would basically say that there is
millions of unmet needs and that those
unmet needs are not explored because the
cost to explore them is too high. But
because the cost to explore those has
come down, then now we can actually have
millions of businesses that never
existed that we didn't even know we
needed to exist.
>> I was sat here the other day with Dra
who is the CEO of Uber. He turned around
Expedia, made it super profitable,
turned around Uber that was losing 2
billion, made it generate about 9
billion in revenue, 10 billion in
revenue. And uh he sat there and said to
me that their 9,000 couriers and drivers
won't have jobs in the future. And and I
so I sit and go, okay, so what what are
they going to do? Are they all going to
start businesses somewhere? Do they? And
also I think one of the interesting
things about AI is the speed of
transition. With the industrial
revolution, there's a little bit of a
delay because infrastructure took time
to build.
>> Takes a long time to build.
>> But this is the first innovation that
I've lived through that is built on
>> it's instantaneous.
>> The internet.
>> The minute an AI learns how to be a
lawyer in one place, it can be a lawyer
in every place. The minute it learns how
to diagnose a disease in in one
location, in one hospital, it can
diagnose a disease in every hospital in
the world. So, it's this instantaneous
roll out uh because it sits on top of a
network that already exists.
>> This is what actually Boston Dynamics
said to me. I was watching a video of
their new robot that's working in
factories. It's a humanoid robot that
can work in factories, pick things up,
move things around. They said, "The
great thing about robotics is if one of
our robots on a shop floor in Boston
learn something, all of our robots learn
it.
>> It's it's wild."
>> Like, hell. So yesterday Tesla built and
they took this wonderful photo because
they built the world's first Tesla Cyber
Cab. Now if anyone doesn't know what a
Tesla Cyber Cab is, it's the first ever
fully autonomous car that doesn't have a
steering wheel and it doesn't have
pedals.
>> Yeah. You just hop in and there's
there's no steering wheel, no pedals.
You can't take control even if you
wanted to.
>> The Cyber Cab is the company's answer to
vehicles like the Whimo. The two-seater
coupe unveiled in 2024
comes without a steering wheel or
pedals. It's guided by AI and they're
now making them. The first one was made
yesterday. Again, 100 over a 100 million
people's job is to drive and you can get
one of these now for Elon saying
$30,000. Um, you can rent them, lease
them. You can buy a bunch of investment
assets and set them out,
>> set up your own fleet and connect them
to different networks like Uber and all
of those sorts of things. And the cost
to move around is going to go through
the floor because you know my Uber to
come here today was probably $50 uh and
that will probably be $6 or $7 uh once
that is rolled out. So the thing that
with the Jevans paradox is it doesn't
mean that everyone gets the same job and
that they get like uh there's just more
of exactly the same jobs. It means that
the transformation creates exponential
growth as a result of the transformation
in an unexpected way. Mhm.
>> So growing up, my mom worked in
newspapers and there was probably half a
million people working in newspapers as
journalists and all of those sorts of
things and that has dropped by 80% in
the last 25 years. But at the same time,
the number of people who are bloggers,
the number of people who have substacks,
the number of people uh who are doing
the kind of work of journalists and
actually making money as a result of
content creation has gone 100 100x. So,
uh, I think it's something like three to
four times more people now make their
money in a way that kind of looks like a
journalist than there ever were
journalists prior to the technology that
disrupt journalists. So, it's not that
it's not that those exact same jobs uh
are are replicated. It's that something
similar emerges as a result.
>> I understand this and I when I read
about the Jews paradox, I like ran it
through my head multiple times to to
understand like how it fits in different
industries. But there is a part of me
that still thinks this is slightly
different because in the example you
gave where there was a a content
creation industry that was then
disrupted by a content creation
industry. I go yeah this this the skill
of intelligence was still of human
intelligence was still
rare and scarce and only humans had it.
M
>> so the disruption of the content
creation industry to a different content
creation industry was still owned by
humans. That transition was still a
human one. But in such a world where AI
agents can make, if you go on a lot of
social media platforms, I shame which
ones, it's just pure AI slop now. Yes,
it's just people's agents churning out
content that they haven't touched or
done anything about. And then I was I I
started saying to you before we started
recording that what we're going to
experience and what I think a lot of
people don't fully embrace about this
idea of becoming a content creator for a
living or building a personal brand is
when you look at some of the graphs and
I'll throw the graphs from the Financial
Times article on the screen. There's now
a plateau of people spending time online
for the first time in history. Well, in
the first time in internet history,
>> Gen Z especially were the first
generation to plateau. Yeah.
>> In their time spent. But the amount of
content, the amount of AI agents, the
amount of people that are now choosing
to make to do content as a living is
exploding. Yes.
>> So you have a supply and demand issue
where there's a set amount really like a
set amount of hours consu sort of
consumption hours and then you have this
huge exponential explosion in available
content because a kid in Mumbai
>> Yeah. attention is a limited resource
but content is
>> and content is unlimited now.
>> Yeah. and and more so so AI slop is just
rolling in and also AI slop doesn't do
it justice. Some of my favorite things
to watch is AI generated. I'm enjoying
AI. So think about it a little when it
comes to personal brand. Think about it
a little bit like an airport that the
airport has got this fog that is rolling
in. If your airplane is already above
the fog,
>> then you're you can continue to fly. But
if your airplane is not taking off
already, then the fog is going to keep
you on the ground. So like for example,
you've invested so much into your
personal brand and people will come
along to see you live and they would
love to go to dinner party series that
you know involves you and there's a
whole community around DOAC, right? So
all of those things means that your
airplane's already up in the air, you
can continue to fly. But if you were
starting 2 years from now or a year from
now or maybe even 6 months from now and
you weren't smart about it, there's just
too much AI generated content. You won't
get traction. you won't get you won't
get that liftoff moment. Uh the same way
that opportunity is coming to an end
because of that AI generated content
>> what I'm seeing in the algorithm. So we
do some data analysis every year on the
variance of performance of pieces of
content we produce on different
channels. Now I've been making social
media content for 15 years. So I have a
bit of a sort of a mental history of
like every year us doing this this
particular data analysis to see the
variance between the worst thing we post
and the best thing we post. And this
year we did the same we ran the same
analysis with my data science team led
by Austin and my team to see if the
variance between the worst thing we post
and and the best thing we post is
getting bigger because what that kind of
is a proxy of is is the algorithm caring
less and less and less about how many
followers I have and is it caring more
and more and more about whoever posts
the most interesting thing today which
is if I was building a social media
company and my primary objective was to
retain people. I wouldn't care if you
have two followers and Stephen has 500
followers. I would just care about who
post the best thing.
>> So we did that analysis and it's it's an
almost perfect graph that looks like
this.
>> And this is the variance increasing.
>> Y
>> which actually means that okay Steven's
taken off from the sky but every day I
wake up increasingly it doesn't matter
what I did yesterday.
>> What we've seen is the end of social
media and the birth of algorithmic media
>> interest algorithms we call them.
>> Yeah. So, social media was all about
connecting with your friends and finding
out what your friends are doing. Um, and
algorithmic media is just finding out
what the algorithm thinks that you
should be watching today. But with that
said, there's this multi-dimension to
it, which is you've got books, you've
got live events, you've got the podcast,
and it's the multi-dimensional angle
that actually really sets you apart. The
creators that just simply want to put a
piece of content on YouTube and get paid
through AdSense revenue and that really
simple that one-dimensional model,
that's coming to an end. But the
creators that have a community and they
meet up in the real world all of that is
is part of an overall ecosystem that is
very defensible because one you know
people want all of that packaged up
together.
>> Why is it fundamentally defensible from
if we think about first principles or
human masloavian needs. Let me give you
a big answer to that which is if we go
back in time to the agricultural age,
farmers had to know when was a good time
to plant the crops and then they had to
go out and toil the soil and put the
seed in the soil and the soil did most
of the value creation in the economy. At
the end of that process, the farmer had
to know this is the day to harvest and
then we need to harvest that and we need
to turn it into something and take it to
market. And AI is very similar, which is
that it's very good at doing the middle
to the middle. It's not good at knowing
what to do in the very first instance or
knowing when to stop and how to take it
to market. So the the entrepreneurs job
is to do step one and two, let AI do
steps three to eight, and then do steps
9 and 10 and to basically have a
coherent cohesive view as to what you're
trying to get the AI to create.
>> Theoretically though, I could I could
ask an AI agent to think about the goal
that will benefit me the most and make
as many AI agents as it needs to to
fulfill that goal. And then it would
make start one business and that would
start another business. lots of
different businesses,
>> start another business, build another
website, contact a supplier.
>> I think what you're into here is two or
three steps ahead of yourself where, you
know, all of this is theoretically
possible, but we haven't seen those kind
of examples happening yet, right? We
haven't seen whether that will
ultimately unfold. I'm not saying it
won't. I think we are moving into a
completely new economy. Like like when
you lived in the agricultural age, it
was completely like unbelievable to you
what the industrial age would have
looked like. like it's beyond all
comprehension if you had an agricultural
age mindset to imagine factory
production or coal production
>> and the thing the principle there that
allows you to see what the future might
look like when it's exponential and not
linear is imagining any rate of
improvement and so this is how I think
always in my business is when I'm
thinking about which bet to make I
imagine if there's just 5% rate of
improvement per quarter eventually this
happens
>> and so with some things we've done on
this show we started two years ago and
for the first 18 months it didn't work
and then 6 months ago it exploded
because eventually the rate of
improvement got to the point where it
was viable and now it's the single most
important disruptive thing we've ever
done
>> and I think about what I the example I
just gave there of agents I'm like if
you just imagine any rate of improvement
just imagine 1% a year
>> and obviously it's way more than that
but imagine 1% a month eventually we get
to a point where a team of agents
>> if nothing if nothing disrupts it one
thing that is very likely to happen in
the next three years is the whole thing
comes crashing
It doesn't financially make any sense to
build the data centers that we're
building.
>> But you're not saying that AI is going
to disappear.
>> The technology itself is remarkable, but
the financial model just makes no sense
whatsoever at the moment.
>> At the moment, which is kind of typical
of bubbles, right?
>> So over the last 180 years, there have
been infrastructure buildouts that have
bankrupted the economy consistently
again and again and again. In fact,
there's a pattern. Whenever we spend
more than 3% of the overall GDP of the
economy on an infrastructure buildout,
it bankrupts the economy briefly for 10
years. Right? So this happened when we
did railway tracks. In fact, it happened
twice in the UK and twice in um the USA.
Then we bankrupt ourselves putting the
electrification grid in place. We
bankrupted ourselves putting uh highways
in place. Now there's something that
makes this worse than ever before and
that is that when we built train tracks
they lasted for 100 years. When we built
roads they lasted 50 plus years. The
telecommunications g uh fiber optics 30
years. All of these investments were
multi-deade investments that we could
get benefit from and and and leverage
for decades. Data centers last 3 to four
years before they need to be replaced.
So we are building something that has a
3 to four year life cycle that costs
hundreds of billions and it has to be
replaced every few years and there is no
financial model attached to this that
justifies it at all. So one thing that
I'm predicting is that in 2029 100 years
after the great depression we will see a
massive financial meltdown based off the
back of these data centers that have
been um developed at the moment. And for
someone that doesn't know what a data
center is,
>> so it's like a big Walmart or an airport
filled with computers and those
computers are running AI, right? So
every time you go on AI, you're
actually, you know, your request is
going off to a big computer in a
Walmartized building somewhere. But
those GPUs, those uh computer stacks,
those big ginormous computers, they are
like iPhones. They last about 3 years
before they get superseded. This year
ahead, we're going to spend 650 billion.
650 billion sounds like so abstract.
It's the equivalent of giving every
single person in America an iPhone Pro
with AirPods. But here's the crazy
thing. 95% of people who have been given
the the free uh iPhone are not willing
to pay for it. And the tiny number of
people who are willing to pay for it,
they're only willing to pay $20 a month,
most of them. So this $20 a month,
everyone's getting a free iPhone
effectively and then a small 5% of
people are willing to pay $20 a month.
The numbers are just astronomically out
of balance.
>> The numbers are astronomically out of
balance. So what happens next? You're
predicting in 2029 there's a financial
crash.
>> There's not a 0% chance that the
financial model around what what we've
launched with AI is catastrophic. It's a
huge financial problem that very few
people are talking about.
>> So let's talk about in a world of AI.
What are the skills that survive? And
like what what are the professions that
you believe survive? You've got
children, Daniel. When when they come to
you and they say, "Dad, um I'm hearing
about all this AI stuff and I've seen
these robots in China doing back flips.
What should I be learning now to make
sure that the next 20, 30, 40 years of
my career is prosperous?"
>> It's the entrepreneurial skill set that
is the most important skill set. It is
essentially the skills of identifying an
opportunity prototyping fast and cheap
experiments to see if you've got
something that people want, taking it to
market, making your initial sales,
scaling up to your addressable market,
and then exiting and then coming up with
a new idea. Because even if you're in a
big corporate, they're going to want to
prototype things. They're going to want
to spin out new products. They're going
to want to come up with new initiatives.
And we need to step through that process
of is this a good idea or not? Can we
validate it? Can we scale it? Right? And
you want to go through that process as
fast and as cheap as possible the way an
entrepreneur would.
>> And on that first point of identifying a
good idea.
Now is there any way to know if the idea
that I have is a good idea or a bad
idea?
>> Yeah, this is a step that entrepreneurs
call validation. And the rookie
entrepreneurs that fail, they don't do
this step very well, right? So they
don't do market validation. They don't
do product validation. They simply get
excited about an idea and then they go
all in on the idea. And what really
experienced entrepreneurs do is that we
come up with ways to do fast cheap
experiments. So for example, last year I
had two ideas and I I actually kind of
liked one a lot and I liked one a little
bit. And what I did is I set up a
waiting list campaign and I basically
invited people to join the waiting list
for idea number one and about 750 people
joined that waiting list and they filled
in a set set of questions so that I knew
that 750 people were interested in this
idea. This was my favorite idea. And
then the second idea I invited people to
join that waiting list and 4 and a half
thousand people joined that waiting
list. So even though this wasn't my
favorite idea, it was way more exciting
for people and way it was sitting on top
of a much bigger need. So off the back
of collecting 4 and a half thousand
people on the waiting list and
collecting all the data and the
information, we went to some angel
investors about a week later after doing
that and we raised quarter of a million
pounds. So about300 or $400,000
and all of that took about a week or
two. With that example, how do you know
that the business itself and the
delivery of that idea actually meets
their expectation? Because I can think
of multiple examples where someone
clicked on an idea that I had, but
actually the delivery of that idea fell
short of expectation because sometimes
things can sound good when you you see
the flyer or the poster or the advert,
but the reality of the experience is
actually not that great.
>> So, let me walk you through the six
steps quickly. Step one is called
founder opportunity fit and founder
opportunity fit is finding something
that you want to do. Step two is
validation. Right? So this is where we
actually try and see is there a market
could we could we build something? Could
we sell something? Right? So that's two
validation. Can we build it? Can we sell
it? Step three is called product market
fit. And this is the next step where
you're actually trying to figure out can
we actually make this live up to
people's expectations so that they
really like it. Is there a group of
people who buy this and they're happy
with the purchase? And we want to do
that carefully and cheaply. And then
finally once people say well or the next
step once people say yes we can do that
we go to market and go to market is
making sales. And then after going to
market we scale up right step five. And
then the final step is we exit. So we go
through those six steps and we call that
a value creation loop. And that value
creation loop goes through those six
steps and each step has its own little
job. And what we're trying to do is just
validate, go to the next step, achieve
the milestones, go to the next step. And
and that's how we do it as
entrepreneurs.
>> So in a world of AI, are there any
particular opportunities that you think
are um new and exciting that anybody
listening right now could pursue to make
money, whether it's passive income on
the side or to leave their current role
and pursue entrepreneurship for?
>> Well, the starting point is that
everything is an opportunity because
what do entrepreneurs do? we find things
that could be done better, faster,
cheaper or with more emotional benefits.
>> But has AI created any particular
interesting opportunities in your view
that you think that's a a huge arbitrage
opportunity?
>> I think one of the best opportunities is
a small SAS company. So software as a
service was an elite level business
opportunity that very very few people
could enter. That was something that
only maybe tens of thousands or hundreds
of thousands of founders at most
globally could have a software company.
So it was very very elite. And the
reason it was elite is because it was
very very hard to mobilize the talent
required to build a software company.
You probably needed, you know, maybe 10,
20 or 30 uh developers to build a
software product that would actually be
a good software product. You needed to
raise millions of dollars to get through
the costs of developing software uh
companies. And you probably needed
10,000 customers to have a break even
software company. Now, because of AI,
all of those costs have massively come
down. And there are software companies
that are wildly profitable that have 500
customers or a thousand customers. They
service a tiny little niche. Uh they
attach a community and some media and
some training to those little software
niches. So one of the most exciting
things is that if you essentially said
that I would like to take what I know,
turn it into a playbook, take that
playbook, ask AI to advise me on what
software we could create, and then use
AI tools to build out that software.
you're able to get very deep into that
journey for almost no money.
>> I was thinking about this the other day
because in my company, we're rebuilding
our entire ATS ourselves.
>> So, an ATS is basically the system you
use when you recruit people. Everyone's
name goes into the ATS. It's kind of
like a like a search engine. Yeah, like
a database of where candidates who have
applied for your company currently are.
>> And over the last couple of years, I've
paid tens of thousands of dollars every
year for an ATS for my companies. And
this year I thought, you know what,
actually I reckon we could build an ATS
in a couple of weeks ourselves and it
could be bespoke to us. So we started
that project. I saw the the first
version of it yesterday. We started a
week ago
>> and the first version the the version of
it I saw I was like, "Oh, this is
significantly better than what we were
using before because it's bespoke."
>> Yeah. And this made me think about the
the opportunity of creating software
generally, which is that in a world
where it becomes, as you say, like
cheaper, easier, faster, we're all going
to be using more software, but we're
probably not going to be paying
other people for their software,
especially when it's these kind of
tools, productivity tools and systems.
>> It's purely a tool, it's very easy to
replicate. But if it's a tool that comes
with a community, if it comes with
education and training, if it comes with
agents that
>> education and training.
>> Yeah. So like for example, if you were
to do an ATS, right, an applicant
tracking system, a a hiring tool, and
you had the DOAC uh system and method
that I can go and attend the training as
to how you on board people, how you
create culture, how you do things at
DOAC, I'm now interested in the software
because it comes with that exciting
training. if there was also a boot camp
that I could go to that was attached to
that product. If there was also an
annual retreat or a dinner series, if
there was also uh some funding
opportunities that came with that. So
once upon a time you were just simply
going to focus on creating a software
tool because that was so labor intensive
and also it had a natural moat or
protection around it that you didn't
have to get creative. But now we live in
a world where the AI lets you to build
the product pretty quickly. It helps you
to do all these other things that we
talked about and suddenly it's actually
quite a a fun product that you that you
can spin up. What you've already created
would have probably cost 500,000 in 6
months.
>> Oh my god. 6 months. I wish.
>> Not that long ago.
>> Yeah. It would probably cost It would
have probably taken about 18 months
total end to end.
>> And you've done it in a week.
>> Yeah. And so everyone else can do it in
a week. And in fact, if anyone if that's
anyone's business right now, there's
going to be a thousand new ATS systems a
day. One's going to trend on Twitter.
You know, people are going to download
that one and then they're going to jump
ship because a new one emerges and it's
better, it's more agentic, whatever. And
so, again, I think are we seeing
software generally become a commodity?
>> What we're going to see is we're going
to see all business opportunities be
like YouTube content. I mean, if I went
back 25, 30 years ago and said there's
going to be 10 person unfunded little TV
studios that produce content every
single week for almost no money.
You you would think that's crazy. I
mean, Seinfeld used to cost 5 million an
episode. Um, The Simpsons and Friends,
these were all multi-million dollars per
episode. And we've now replicated that
that can be done like by a tiny little
team for free every week. It's
interesting because the minute we say
that the answer is to do these things
that are now easy and free and cheap to
do, it's almost like we we then don't
acknowledge the fact that if everyone's
doing it, it's no longer a valuable
thing to do.
>> It's less valuable.
>> Yeah. As it becomes easier, the other
access is the decline in the value. So,
we're saying we're saying to people go
be a content creator. But the very fact
that they can without needing a CNN size
skyscraper or production equipment also
means everybody can which means that
that that actually is losing value at
the same rate that it's becoming easy
theoretically and and so what I
continually think about from first
principles is what is it that I can bet
on that is irreplaceably human which
only I can do and a kid in Mumbai cannot
do. And so when we say software I go kid
in Mumbai and then we say content I go
kid in Mumbai. Well, uh, physical
experiences in the world, real world, I
agree with you. So, standing on a stage
and telling your story is something I
mean, you already see that thousands of
people show up to see this and to be
part of to be in a room with other
people who are sharing an experience.
See, the thing that the AI version of
you can't do is turn up to an event.
>> I agree. So, I I say what I say because
I genuinely want to be challenged here.
I I'm I sit here with these AI experts
and CEOs because I genuinely I hope that
they say something that
>> tilts the current belief that I have and
like makes me go, "Oh, actually, you
know, that's a good point. I'm in search
of good points on the subject matter."
So, when I said what I just said about
content software becoming increasingly
commoditized and because it's becoming
commoditized, we're like tempting people
to go do more of it without
acknowledging the fact that the very
fact that people are doing more of it
means it's less valuable and it's more
of a commodity. And what I'm saying
though is that these things have to go
together. So simply like anyone who's
doing real world experiences, I think
what's going to happen is you'll go to a
conference and that conference will come
with custom software that lasts 2 or 3
weeks that is really really interesting
and it relates to that conference and
that software was created as a SAS
product for the attendees of that
conference and it kind of pops into
existence very briefly. These things
used to be separate and now they all
cluster together, right? So, it's a
buffet of things that you all put
together. If we take most successful
businesses now, they do social media.
That used to be a standalone business.
It was crazy to think that a hair salon
could also be a media business. I've met
with tens of thousands of entrepreneurs
and the number of people who want to go
big is tiny. It's a fraction of the
entrepreneurial community. What most
people want is a business that provides
an amazing lifestyle. They want to live
and work from anywhere. They want to be
able to travel. They want to do three or
four days a week. They want to drop
their kids off at school. They want to
uh do non-monotonous, interesting work
that is a little chaotic, a little
creative, a little bit fun, a little bit
challenging. They want to work with a
small group of people that they get to
know and enjoy and travel through life
together. And those are the types of
things that the majority of people
actually want. Very few people actually
want big. So, one thing that I'm
noticing is that it's probably harder
than ever to build a big business, but
it's easier than ever to build a small
successful business. So, if we were to
say that a business that does 1 to 5
million of revenue with a team of 10
people, that is like totally
like super uh possible. But once you go
beyond that, it's becoming harder and
harder because you get disrupted more
frequently. So you have to be an elite
athlete of entrepreneurs to withstand
the constant disruption and and um the
the constant change that's coming. So
because your natural mindset is to think
really really big, you're probably
missing that for many people who are
working in a annoying corporate
environment and their job is monotonous
and they feel tethered to a desk or they
feel tethered to a team that doesn't
really care about them. you know, a lot
of those people are going to actually
end up in small dynamic little
businesses that will never be big, but
they'll be great. They'll be fun, you
know, and people will, you know, have
flexibility and they'll have uh, you
know, great, you know, great
opportunities as a result.
>> I think you're right. I do have a bias
towards trying to find, you know, big
opportunities. But actually, I think the
big blue ocean opportunity, which is,
for anyone that doesn't know, I think of
red oceans from the the book called Blue
Ocean Strategy as very competitive,
>> hyper competitive horrible markets where
it's like a race to the bottom. You're
all doing the same thing. Like you're
all saying the same thing, doing the
same thing, and you all think that your
unique positioning is is unique, but
it's actually not. The market doesn't
value it any differently. Like a wine
company saying that their wine is a year
older or that using a fancier word on
the label. It's a red ocean, a blood
bath. A blue ocean is an uncont
uncontested waters where you have room
to grow much less competition and there
is actually something fundamental to
your proposition your business idea the
thing the value you're giving to the
world that is unique
>> I'm looking for blue oceans
>> and yes I will try and build a big boat
in the blue ocean
>> because that's my nature but also life
is easier when you sail in blue oceans
for everybody even if you want a
lifestyle business I think one of the
great examples at the moment is if you
started a marketing agency when I
started In 2014, especially a social
media agency, you were in the blue
ocean.
>> You were briefly
>> briefly. And they say, you know, blue
oceans often last for 10 years. In 2024,
my best friends, I'd say 70% of them run
marketing or brand agencies.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm having the same same therapy session
with them once a month at the moment.
And if you look at the big five, big
four, big five agencies in the world,
the WPPs and Martin Surl's business,
>> they're all
>> they're all competed to way their
margins. They're struggling. Yeah.
>> They're losing their profit. they're
losing their market share.
>> And AI and digital technology means that
this disruption cycle happens in months,
not years anymore. So you said a blue
ocean can last for years or decades. Not
in the world of AI. In the world of AI,
as soon as we've identified that you've
got a blue ocean, we can replicate that
real fast and we can come and fly out to
your blue ocean with with an with lots
of competition. Here's something that's
interesting. Throughout all of history,
whenever you find societies that have
low social mobility and hyper
competition, there's lots and lots of
festivals. So you go into medieval
times, they've got a festival for every
season. They've got a festival for every
life event. There's just constant
festivals. You go into rural Africa,
rural India, and it's festivals,
festivals, festivals, right? Weddings,
funerals, seasonal festivals. It's a
huge part of human culture that we have
lost in big cities. like we don't do a
lot of festival or rare it's rare that
we do a lot of festivals these real
world experiences but I don't
necessarily think it's a blue ocean
because uh as soon as people realize how
much people want to do festivals and
want to do real world experiences a lot
of companies can also add this to the
mix I think what is defensible is
community experience and embracing the
constant chaotic change and coming up
with new stuff all the time
>> one of the bets I'm making and it goes
back to what like again reasoning up
from those principles. If the question
is what can I do that an AI agent or AI
could not do and especially in the
context of what humans will continue to
need.
>> Mhm.
>> When you were born Dan, you're born with
a bunch of needs and those needs like
fundamentally haven't changed. One of
them is like connection.
>> I think you'll always be able to discern
what is real human connection from
artificial connection. I remember being
16 years old and in my psychology class
at the back when they told me about the
recess monkeys experiment where they got
a recess monkey, this little small
little monkey. They pretended that its
mother was a wire mesh. So they made a
wire mesh mother. The recess monkey
grows up to be a psychopath because it's
it fundamental human need of connection
is not met. They then did it with a
cloth and the recess monkey grew up to
be a bit more stable. And then obviously
they showed the examples where the
recess monkey actually had a physical
flesh mother and it was it was fine. So
I say this to illuminate the fact that
we have fundamental needs that if not
met there will be consequences. One of
ours is connection. So, as a content
creator, I can sit here and I can tell
you what happened today, right? I can
say at 6:00 this guy broke into this
bank and then he left. I think that's a
commodity. Now,
>> I think the thing that I can do as a
podcaster, as a behind-the-scenes
content creator, as a streamer,
>> this is why I'm so bullish on streamers
>> is they're making irreplaceably human
content. There's no AI that can an AI
can tell you what menop what happens in
menopause. An AI can't tell you its
experience of menopause. Yes, we need to
find something that only we can say as
humans. And every single person has this
by the way, but a lot of us overlook
what we can say as a human. I recently
came across a financial planner and his
name is Matt Pitcher and he gave a TED
talk and the TED talk is about what it
was like for him to meet 100 people who
had won the lottery. So, he had a
partnership as a financial planner with
the uh British lottery. And every week
someone wins the lottery and then he
goes in and meets them a week later
after they've discovered they've won the
lottery.
>> Wow.
>> But what he did did is he looked back at
his history and he had lots of different
things that he was doing, but he looked
back at his history and he connected
some dots and he said, "Hey, wait a
second. There's something that only I
can talk about. There's something that
is that is my thing that I've
experienced that I live through that
I've sat in those living rooms. I've sat
eye to eye with those people and only I
can talk about that." And because of
that TED talk, he's he's had half a
million views in the first few weeks and
you know, his business is obviously
going to explode and all of those kind
of things because he found something
that only he could say. I believe that
every person has something that's human
that only they can say that's highly
relatable. You shared with me an
interesting philosophy. Uh when we first
met, I did my first episode on Diary of
a CEO and it got millions of views. And
I said to you, why is it that my episode
got millions of views, but a few weeks
ago there was a billionaire CEO who only
got a few hundred thousand views. And a
few weeks before that, there was a
billionaire CEO who only got a few
hundred thousand views. And you said,
Daniel, relatable beats impressive.
>> Yeah.
>> And a lot of people think that they have
to cure cancer or launch a rocket to
Mars or that they have to win a Nobel
Peace Prize or float a company on the
NASDAQ. And actually each individual
person, we have to discover what I would
call your personal intellectual property
or your personal intellectual capital
and your personal story, your personal
playbooks, you know, your your triumphs
and your disasters, the things that
you've done that are interesting to a
certain group of people that you can
quantify, that you can describe, that
you can give me what it was like. Those
are your personal playbooks. Now once
you have personal playbooks, you have
the ability to turn that into all sorts
of products and services through AI. But
you but it starts with having personal
playbooks.
>> I think this is the key mistake that a
lot of content creators are um making,
which is because it's easy to make stuff
now, it's tempting just to churn stuff
out.
>> Yeah.
>> Whereas I'm making less content now in a
world of AI. If you look at my LinkedIn,
I used to post, if you go back like
three or four years, I was just churning
stuff out my quote picture, anything
fluffy, like just fluff
>> data.
>> Yeah. Now I go, well, if everyone can do
it, the reason why my LinkedIn, you'll
see almost every post I post now is a
human story about something I've gone
through, you'll see photos of me, you'll
see photos of my family.
>> You're saying stuff that only you can
say.
>> Yeah. So, we all have to find what is
the thing that only you can say. And no
robot, no AI could ever say that because
it hasn't lived that experience.
>> Yeah, it's got all the data. It's got
all the knowledge, but it's got no lived
experience. And also from a business
perspective, an AI can never stand on a
stage. An AI can never host a dinner
party. Uh an AI can never meet someone
face to face and put their hand on their
shoulder and say, "Hey, I've been
through what you've been through and
you're going to be okay." Right? So all
of those things AI can't do. So once you
discover something that only you can say
it it becomes a superpower.
>> I think my best performing post this
year was actually me proposing to my
fiance a prime prime example of
something that is irreplaceably human
which is getting down on one knee and
telling another human being that you
love them. There's no AI that has ever I
mean listen
>> it's never experienced it.
>> Yeah. Exactly. So and there's something
so human about that.
>> It's relatable. It's not impressive.
It's relatable. Um from first principles
I ask myself which type of content am I
making is creating the the strongest
parasocial relationship
>> with the person on the other end. If I
post on my LinkedIn everything happens
for a reason. Am I how much have I moved
the needle on our our relationship my
relationship with you? Probably zero. If
I talk about something more human, some
struggles that I'm having uh from a
human perspective, if I'm more honest,
authentic, and open or vulnerable about
the experience I'm going through, like
streamers who sit there for seven I
think did I say this last time that I I
asked a streamer a couple of questions.
>> And I asked the streamers like, "What do
you do?" And he was like, "Oh, nothing.
I just sit there and
>> sit for seven hours and watch Judge Judy
with the audience and we chat." I say,
and this is a prime example of
Parasocial.
>> They actually talk to you. They go chat.
Let me know if you think X Y or Z chat.
Drop W's in the chat. That's a friend.
>> That's the closest thing to a friend.
It's the strongest parasocial
relationship.
>> Well, you said about the football game
where the loudest cheers in the audience
came for those streamers who were just
connecting with people.
>> They've built friendships basically with
their audience. So, of all, I think in a
world of AI where justformational
content, which is this thing happened or
this is what the gut microbiome is, is
going to become commoditized. The thing
that isn't commoditized is content that
creates relationships with audiences and
then as you say then converts that
relationship into stronger experiences
like IRL events and so on and so forth.
I've got a couple more ideas that I I
haven't fully shared with the world yet
but I'm just I'll wait for the right
time about all of this stuff.
>> See it's not one piece that is adding
the value. It's the ecosystem of pieces.
So it's having something to say that
only you can say. Let's call that your
personal playbooks. Let's call that your
personal intellectual property. It's
having the people or your community that
you're going through life with, right?
That's called that your ideal customers,
your ideal personas if you want to make
it a clinical definition of in marketing
speak that that gives rise to a personal
brand. When those two things touch, you
then end up with a personal brand,
right? As if by magic, you end up with a
personal brand because you've got
intellectual property and you've got an
ideal customer who connects with that
and then you you are the person who
embodies it. So you you give rise to
that. And then the question is, well,
how do you make money from that? Well,
you productize it. You create products
and services. And it's the product and
service ecosystem that makes money. It's
not one product or service. It used to
be that you could just have a a product
or service that you offer. And now it's
the product and service ecosystem. The
people that I see making the most money
at the moment, they don't do one thing.
You don't do one thing. Right? So, if I
look at uh your personal P&L, you've
probably got 27 different ways that
money came and hit your bank account
last month. There's speaking, there's
podcasting, there's AdSense revenue,
there's sponsors, there's shareholdings
in different companies that you've got.
Um, there might be some one-to-one
coaching that you might have done. There
might be an appearance fee. There might
be some book royalties. There's multiple
books. Uh, there might be some software
that you've launched. So there's all
this stuff that sounds crazy and chaotic
in a pre-AII world, but in a postAI
world, it's not that hard to create all
these different products and services
and to be launching different things and
to be going on a journey with people and
having a product and service ecosystem.
I'm the same, by the way. I've probably
got 20 different things that, you know,
that I'm involved in at any given time.
>> I was reading yesterday that the for the
first time, I mean, I was reading a few
things. One of the interesting things I
read is that Spotify said their best
developers haven't written a line of
code since December thanks to AI, which
again is a whole another conversation.
Maybe we should touch on that. What are
the occupations that you genuinely
believe won't exist 5 years from now as
we know them?
>> People say lawyers are going to be
disrupted.
>> Well, I recently had a law legal case
that I had to resolve and it was going
to cost us £50,000. So, $60,000
uh as a start the process with a law
firm. We took matters into our own hands
and we used Claude and we actually fixed
the process and resolve the process by
spending 20 a month, $20 a month. And
Claude gave us a coaching session on how
to handle it. Gave us multiple decision
tree pathways. Gave us the documents
that we would need. Gave us an Excel
spreadsheet of do say this, don't say
this in the negotiation. And it made me
realize, my goodness, what a lawyer's
going to do. Uh because if all they do
is charge for time for money to
regurgitate contracts, I don't need that
anymore. Right?
>> Multiple reports say legacy legal tech
and data firms have lost roughly 20% of
their value so far in 2026.
>> 280 billion was wiped off the value of
publicly traded companies like that in
the last week. Like it's wild. Um
because we're not going to need that. I
don't believe we're going to need these
business models as they currently stand.
I think they're going to have to change
and adapt. I think a lawyer needs to
take a completely different shape. Part
business coach, part lawyer, part prompt
engineer. They're going to be the key
person of AI in the room who the
lawyer's job will be to work with you on
your AI prompting and help you get the
resolution. You're probably going to
need a lot less of a lawyer's time. Blue
collar work has been devalued. And we've
seen people who work with their hands
and people who uh turn up to your house
and fix your house in a devalued role.
And it could be in the next, you know,
uh, couple of years. These are the roles
that are elevated the most and that
plumbers regularly earn more than
lawyers simply because the nature of the
economy has changed. One thing I've
learned over the last 25 years is the
pendulum swings. Things that very few
things stay the same. There is always
this swinging pendulum. And the swinging
pendulum is like, oh yeah, white collar
work behind a screen is the high value
thing. Oh, no, it's actually blue collar
work with your hands. You talked about
supply and demand. We dis the government
disrupted the natural way children go
out and find opportunities in the world
by making university loans come along.
And they said, "Oh, everyone can just
take out a university loan and go to
university. In fact, you must and you
should go go to university. Get yourself
in debt or else you'll never get a job
anywhere if you don't do a university
degree." And lots of young people who
should have been plumbers, electricians,
and concreers and brick layers went off
and became a m got a master's degree in
the mating habits of butterflies and you
know some random degree that doesn't
have a job attached and they ended up in
60 70 $80,000 worth of debt to get this
degree that no one was asking for. That
market distortion means that we now
don't have many plumbers and
electricians and the blue ocean is now
being a trades person.
There's a phase a lot of companies hit
where they're no longer doing the most
important thing, which is selling. And
they get really bogged down with admin.
And it's often something that creeps up
slowly and you don't really notice until
it's happened. Slowly momentum starts to
leak out. This happened to us and our
sponsor pipe drive was a fix I came
across 10 years ago. And ever since my
teams across my different companies have
continued to use it. Pipe Drive is a
simple but powerful sales CRM that gives
you the visibility on any deals in your
pipeline. It also automates a lot of the
tedious, repetitive, and time-consuming
parts of the sales process, which in
turn saves you so many hours every
single month, which means you can get
back to selling. Making that early
decision to switch to Pipe Drive was a
real gamecher, and it's kept the right
things front of mind. My favorite
feature is Pipe Drive's ability to sync
your CRM with multiple email inboxes so
your entire team can work together from
one platform. And we aren't the only
ones benefiting. Over 100,000 companies
use Pipe Drive to grow their business.
So, if something I've said resonates,
head over to piperive.com/ceo
where you can get a 30-day free trial.
No credit card or payment required.
>> Steve, what are you doing?
>> Uh, just making myself a delicious
coffee
>> from the freezer.
>> From the freezer. Have you not heard
about Contier?
>> No.
>> Oh my gosh. This is going to change your
life. A couple of months ago, the
founder of this business called Matt
sent a big shipment of this coffee to
our office in London. What most people
don't know is that the processing of
coffee takes out a lot of the taste. So,
what they do is they flash freeze it at
the optimal moment when it's most tasty
and they send you in the post the coffee
in these little frozen ice cubes. Now,
Matt sent a big shipment to my office. I
moved it to the kitchen. I said to the
team, "Knock yourselves out." And then I
saw so many messages in our Slack
channel of people going, "Oh my god,
what the hell is that? It's so
delicious." All I have to do is pop it
out in the morning using the little
button on the back of this thing. I pour
my hot water in and I mix it and that is
done. You can get $30 off your first
order of Cometier coffee if you go to
cometier.com/stephven.
Try it and please Instagram DM me,
LinkedIn me and let me know if you love
it as much as I do. I was looking at the
um top 10 jobs according to AI that are
most likely to be disrupted and it said
things like drivers with Mackenzie
estimating 30% of them will be automated
by 2030 customer service representative
and call center reps which I used to be.
>> Mhm. Same
>> 50% headcount reductions after AI roll
out according to some estimates some go
up to about 80%. I actually saw a tool
on my timeline yesterday that is real
human voice indistinguishable from
humans that's just launched and is
causing a huge stir. So that they're
thinking that will replace even more of
the customer service roles. I I did
speak to the CEO of Cler TLDDR as he
said we currently have 7,000 employees.
We're going to be able to get down to
3,000. He said after summer because of
um AI and we'll be using our existing
team members that are in customer
service roles to do more sort of bespoke
white glove VIP
>> VIP stuff will go up. In fact, Jean's
paradox would suggest that a lot of the
dehumanizing repetitive work will go
away. But actually, if there are AI bots
that are really good at setting
appointments for a VIP human person to
have a conversation, then that work will
go through the roof. Because one of the
reasons that people, like right now,
most companies wish they could have more
VIP conversations, but the appointment
setting, they don't have a lot of the
low-level appointment setting stuff
happening. And if the appointment
setting stuff, if the cost of that goes
to zero, then the the the affordability
of the VIP level treatment um becomes
you know becomes uh much more feasible.
>> Retail cashes, admin assistants,
bookkeepers and payroll clerk, sales
development reps, warehouse workers with
um Amazon and others reporting that
robots now assist or replace labor in a
roughly 40% of fulfillment tasks. And
that Boston Dynamics video, which I'll
put up on the screen, shows a humanoid
robot working in a factory. What's nice
about some of this is that many of the
jobs here are jobs that a lot of people
don't actually like doing. They are
repetitive and dehumanizing. They're
late night. They're early mornings. So
potentially,
provided there is a Jeins paradox that
something happens that's more fun, more
humanizing, more interesting, more VIP,
more chaotic, and you know, all of that
sort of stuff. It could be a very
positive thing.
>> Fast food workers. Um, or
>> I used to be a fast food worker.
>> So did I in McDonald's? I think it was
two days. I did two years at McDonald's.
>> Oh, really? Because this disruption is
happening at record speeds. Where do all
these people go? Because, you know, even
in examples, oh, they could do AI
labeling. They need to be upskilled and
trained. And I worry that the rate of
disruption isn't going to meet the rate
of creation of new opportunities.
>> And I really do worry about this. Like I
think people wonder why I have these
conversations on this podcast over and
over again. My philosophy to talking
having conversations on this podcast is
basically I'll say to my team I'll say
Steve you want to have a conversation
about
>> you know this particular subject the gut
microbiome and I'll say
>> we've covered it
>> which basically means I'm no longer
curious y
>> I have the answers I know about the
trillions of gut micro and I know how
the gut brain access let's move on
>> I keep having these conversations about
AI because I feel like I'm getting no
good answers
>> okay so here's what's interesting there
is something which you have which is
this elite mindset which is how do I
organize society
so that everyone gets a job and everyone
does stuff right and this is this is the
trap that many people have fallen into
and it's actually at the root cause of
socialism so the root of socialism is
that I know better than everybody else
and I will come up with a way of running
society so everyone gets looked after
that's the top down mindset the crazy
mindset that actually works is if If we
give people education and training and
we make opportunity transparent and we
actually let people know what's actually
happening in the market and we give them
price signal data, they will
selforganize and reorganize and they
will have a bottom-up revolution and
they will find amazing interesting
things to do. The money is in the
economy, right?
>> You think that's true?
>> That's called capitalism.
>> I know, but
>> capitalism works
>> in the UK. Let's take the UK as an
example, cuz we're all just screaming at
each other about brown people. We're not
talking about the the real alien, which
is like the fundamental economic
disruption of AI. Yeah. There's a report
that came out yesterday showing that
unemployment in the UK has hit
>> it's 25% up and youth unemployment has
grown by more than 25%.
>> It's like 16.1% of people that are
between 16 and 24 unemployed now.
>> Yeah.
>> And we're still not talking about the
economy. We're talking about brown
people.
>> When people feel that they can't get
ahead, they look for somebody to blame.
And this is historically consistent.
What is really happening is that the
government has become so big in the
economy. The the UK government is now 45
to 50% of all spending in the UK
economy. That's essentially a socialist
or it's getting socialist. Every amount
of government spend is a market
distortion regardless of what it's for.
And I'm saying there plenty of things
governments should be spending money on,
but all government spending is a market
distortion. It's not market driven. And
there is a monopoly on spend. So
therefore, it is a market distortion.
The more government spending you have,
the more market distortions you have.
>> What do you mean by market distortions?
>> So a market distortion is where the
markets are not really able to function
because there is some big organization
like the government spending money and
taking away price signals and taking
away the realities of the market. So a a
great example is what happened with
student loans. So rather what in a
capitalist society what would have
happened is that young people would have
heard oh my goodness there's a shortage
of brick layers. Have you heard that
brick layers are making £300 a day? Wow,
I would love to make £300 a day. I'm
going to go be a brick layer. Guess
what? It's a brick layers apprentice.
I'm going to go and be an apprentice.
I'm going to get paid to learn this
trade. And there would be a market
driven pull towards being a brick layer.
A young person would get a job at a bank
and the bank would say, "Hey, can we
please pay for you to do a finance
degree because we need more people
who've got a finance degree and we will
actually pay for you to go through
that." So that's a functioning market.
It's basically based on uh needs and
wants and things that are needed within
the economy. What the government did is
they created a what's called a market
distortion. They said to all young
people, we are going to give you as much
uh lending as you like to go out and
take whatever university courses you
want. Um there's no price data, there's
no signaling data. It's just you if you
want to borrow £50,000, you can go to
any course. If you're really interested
in the breeding habits of butterflies,
go and do a master's degree in that. and
um you know, happy days, right? You you
could it doesn't matter whether there
are jobs associated with it, you must go
and get a a university degree. So, they
set up an entire system that pushed
young people to go get £50,000 worth of
debt and do a degree that no one was
asking for. That's a market distortion.
We now have a bubble of over 280 billion
pounds worth of uh debt that will
probably never be repaid. Uh we have a
entire generation of young people who
are saddled with this debt that takes
away all motivation. There's no point in
working because they pay such high taxes
every single time they make a payment to
pay off their student loan. They they
pay 600 but the debt goes up by 650.
Right? It's it's absolutely insane. And
that's a classic example of governments
meddling with the markets creating a
market distortion. And now we have
hundreds of billions of dollars worth of
people who are very angry, very upset uh
because they are trapped in a student
debt that will not go away for decades.
>> Rashi Sunnak, the former prime minister
of the UK wrote an article last week
which you might have seen where he said
that if the UK fails to fix its
productivity problems and seize the AI
opportunity, the country risks becoming
a tourist theme park.
>> Yeah. Not even a good tourist theme
park. you know, there's there's, you
know, there's not a lot, you know, at
least a lot of other countries have
beaches and mountain ranges and ski
resorts and, you know, the UK doesn't
have a lot of that. We have to let
markets function. The issue that we
have, and this is this is actually a
trap that you're falling into is trying
to figure out top down, how do we
organize society, which is socialism,
right? The top down approach of trying
to fix this problem for everybody is the
socialist mindset. And it does it it
doesn't work. If you were the prime
minister
>> Yeah.
>> and you you can see the future that's
coming.
>> Yeah.
>> What would you do?
>> So the number one thing the UK needs to
do is reduce government involvement
where we need to get the government
spending down less than 35%.
>> Where'd you cut?
>> Right. So the key thing that you need is
that you need well there's loads of
places to cut, right? Like getting
involved in trying to do wind farms and
solar farms and all of this 40 billion
and all this sort of stuff. Preventing
companies from accessing natural gas
that is just sitting under our feet is a
crazy thing to do. Spending 20 billion
trying to give away one of our islands
to someone is a crazy thing to do.
There's all sorts of crazy things that
the government is spending money on.
Bureaucracy is a crazy spend. Do you
know that the um Birmingham City
Council, they wanted to migrate from SAP
to Oracle
>> and from a CRM system with SAP to a CRM
system with Oracle, a software system,
right? So they wanted to migrate from
one software system to another software
system. They thought that it would cost
£19 million which in itself is a very
high amount to migrate from one software
to another software. It cost £220
million.
>> So are you saying that you think the
government should just do less stuff?
>> They should be involved in less stuff
because what's happening right now is
that there is so
much government spending that the
benefits for succeeding are being eroded
by taxation and people are just leaving.
See, here's the thing. There's with
capitalism, the only benefit of
capitalism is the creative
entrepreneurial process, right? That
creative entrepreneurial process that
produces amazing companies and amazing
innovations and it creates stuff that is
better, faster, and cheaper for
everybody's lives. That comes from
capitalism. But if you take away the
incentives for doing that, you
essentially don't have that happen
within your country. And then as soon as
you don't have that, you don't have any
economic growth. And then as soon as you
don't have any economic growth, all
you're left with is the debt. And the
debt erodess your economy and kills your
economy and you don't have any growth to
counterbalance the debt. So you enter a
downward spiral. And that is basically
the same socialist scam that happens
over and over again everywhere that it's
tried. You're essentially trying to get
rid of the worst elements of an economy,
which is cronyism and extraction. But
that happens under socialism. you just
simply lose the one thing that doesn't
happen under socialism which is the
creative process, the entrepreneurial
process, the innovative process that
creates new value in the economy. So
what we've currently done in the UK,
we've taken away all incentives for
people to be in the UK and to succeed.
I'm sure you know people personally who
are no longer in the UK as tax
residents, who should be in the UK as
tax residents. They like the UK, they
enjoyed living in the UK, but what
happened? they left. You and I had a
debate with a guy a year ago and he
said, "Oh no, people are not going to
leave the UK. We can tax them as high as
we possibly can. We can ramp up the
taxes."
>> Gary Stevenson.
>> Yeah, Gary Stevenson. And Gary's
prediction was that rich people are not
going to leave. And he also predicted
that the house prices are going to
explode and that we're going to have
these horrible house prices. What's
happened? Housing market has gone flat
because people are leaving. the
economically active produ producers,
providers, they have left in their
droves and the economy is now in real
trouble. If you ask anyone who has left,
what do they tell you is the reason that
they left the UK?
>> Well, it's one of two things. It's
generally, I think they feel a sense of
pessimism about building their future in
a place that that feels like it's
unmanaged decline to some people.
>> And then the other cohort will say tax
reasons,
>> high taxes and and it just feels like
you can't get ahead. And also the third
I'd say is they they think that talent
is elsewhere. So they think they have a
better chance of getting capital and
talent employees if they move to America
or Dubai or wherever else.
>> Yep. And if you go to Dubai low taxes
and if you go to America lower taxes um
more opportunities. So we are living in
a time where you know a lot of countries
are exploring this socialism thing and
unfortunately it's a scam. But even
what's interesting is even your mindset
is we need to fix this top down as
opposed to fix it bottom up. With AI, we
need to give people price data, price
signals.
>> What does that mean?
>> It means that they need to be able to
see what's happening in in the economy.
A young person needs to know that
someone's making a lot of profit. They
need to be able to see there is
opportunities to do this, there's
opportunities to do that. They need to
also see, oh, this is no longer an
opportunity. So, this was great. This
was a great opportunity 5 years ago, but
it's not such a great opportunity now. A
lot of young people are going to
discover, oh, wait a second. I could get
into house renovations because a lot of
houses need renovating. And they go,
"Oh, cool. I've heard about someone
who's making money doing that. I'm going
to go do that." So, that's just having
access to price data.
>> When I look back over the last couple of
years, data from Henley and Partners in
2023, it says 3,200 millionaires net
left the UK. In 2024, 9,500 millionaires
net left the UK. In 2025, projected
16,500
millionaires are expected to leave the
UK, which is a record outflow. And
predictions that have not yet been
published warn that the trend is likely
to continue into 2026. When you think
about this, like I guess there's two
questions, which is why does this
matter?
>> Mhm.
>> And then the next question is what
should I do about it on an individual
level?
>> So why does it matter is because 1% of
people pay for 30% of the bills and uh
10% of people pay 60% of the bills. So
if those people leave then those bills
get passed on to everybody. We've seen
this here in New York. So we're at the
moment we're in New York and this
socialist mayor Mandani has basically
just come out today and said we need to
put everybody's taxes up because we need
to spread the bills of the city across
all the residents um because people are
leaving. Right. So he wants to propose a
9.5% tax rise on all people uh who who
own homes regardless of the value of
those homes. So essentially when rich
people leave they leave behind a lot of
bills that everybody else has to pay
that they were previously paying.
>> In his February 2026 preliminary budget,
New York Mayor Zorhan Mandani proposed a
9.5% property tax increase to address a
projected 5.4 billion budget shortfall.
This proposal acts as a last resort
alternative to his preferred plan which
was increasing taxes on top earners and
corporations to fill the revenue gap. H
>> he promised free stuff and he promised
that everything was going to be paid for
for free. Nothing is free. Someone has
to pay for everything. If the rich
people leave, there is not people who
can pay for all the free stuff. And
that's what New York is suddenly
discovering. So why does it matter?
Because rich people essentially create
the growth. They are the high taxpayers.
whichever way you want to say it or
discover or discuss it. It is a small
group of people who pay a lot of the uh
taxes, you don't want those people to
leave the economy. What do you do about
it? The number one thing to do about it
is you need to identify the opportunity
that's right for you. That's called
founder opportunity fit. What you're
looking for is an opportunity where you
can earn money no matter where you are
in the world. If you're somewhere that
you don't perhaps like being for any
reason, you can pick up and move. Um, so
the best kind of businesses and the best
kind of opportunities at the moment are
the ones that are not geographically
limited to a particular city.
>> It says that in New York, personal tax
income remains pretty strong, but
business tax collections have started to
soften. Recent reports show they are
roughly 378 million lower than initially
projected as business formation slows
down in New York.
>> Yeah, it's the same story. We've seen
this over and over again. Um, socialism
is like a hot stove that every
generation has to touch for themselves.
that essentially every generation of
young people, they think they've
discovered something new. They think,
"Oh my goodness, what if we just go to
the rich people and take it off them and
give it to everybody else and we'll
redistribute the wealth." And even
though it's been tried for 180 years
since KL Marx came along, uh it just
doesn't work. It it is a disaster and it
ruins economies over and over and over
again. And trying to offer lots and lots
of free incentives without any
productivity gains is a downward spiral.
What's your bare case for the future of
AI?
>> Well, the bare case is that we have
something called the angles pause. The
angles pause is what happened in the
industrial age where for 50 years all
the wealth went to the top uh because of
the new technology of the
industrialization. When we went from
agriculture to industrial age, that new
technology displaced so many people that
there were revolutions off the back of
it.
>> I mean, this is going to be even faster
and more disruptive.
>> Yeah, it's very disruptive. Yeah. I said
this once before in a conversation I had
about AI, but I went to my friend's
accelerator in San Francisco, which used
to be a software accelerator. And when I
walked in there and went around, he has,
you know, so hundreds of entrepreneurs
in there building stuff. I was like, why
is everyone building robots? And he was
like, oh, because and he showed me this,
I said this in a couple of episodes ago,
showed me this frying pan which had an
arm, a robotic arm attached to it. And
he was like, cook your dinner for you.
>> Yeah.
>> And and he was like, so 10 years ago,
the expensive thing wasn't actually the
robotic arm. He's like, "All these
pieces, all these, they've been around
for for decades." He goes, "The
expensive thing was the intelligence."
>> He goes, "Now it costs sense. Back then
it would have cost me tens of thousands
to to buy the intell intelligence that
would know how to make your omelette for
you." So he goes, "What you're seeing
now is we're actually in the the
Renaissance age of robotics." And I
looked around everywhere. I was like,
"Oh, there's what's that machine over
there?" He goes, "That makes your
perfume for you in the morning." Yeah.
>> You tell it how you want to smell today.
It makes it has all the sense loaded in
and it'll make you and you can see the
making
>> anything that is currently got a
Bluetooth in it will have intelligence
in it. So your toothbrush will tell you
whether you've brushed your teeth well
enough and book it'll probably be the
thing that books an appointment for your
dentist uh and all that sort of stuff.
>> I'll go even further. I'd say even
things that don't like my bed sheet my
bed sheets my pillows my mattresses
>> and they they will all have access to
agents and all that sort of stuff. My
bare case for AI is not about the
intelligence side of things. I generally
believe that more intelligence means a
better society. Um, there's never been a
situation where lots of intelligence was
a bad thing. Um, so I think intelligence
has a pretty strong bullcase to it, but
financial bubbles are a real thing and
I've lived through a couple of them. And
what I've discovered is that they have
widespread massive impacts on all sorts
of areas of society that you wouldn't
even expect. And my real bare case for
AI is that we overinvest in these data
centers. We cause a massive financial
collapse. uh and that we wipe out
pension funds. I don't know if you know
this, but they're packaging up the debt
for these financial uh assets and
they're selling that to um pension funds
as private credit. So all of these huge
data centers, what they're doing is
paying 6% above inflation as a packaged
up debt. They send it over. Now when
they go to the pension funds, they say,
"Oh, this is backed by Google and backed
by Microsoft and backed by uh Amazon."
and then they say, "Oh, you know, it's a
6% um financial instrument backed by
these huge companies." But
unfortunately, the mathematics of
spending 600 billion a year on something
that only has a three or four year
lifespan, every single time in the last
180 years that we've spent more than 3%
of our economy on an infrastructure
buildout, we've ended up with either a
massive recession or a depression.
>> Did you hear the Anthropic CEO? For
anyone that doesn't know, Anthropic is
one of the large AI companies. Yeah,
they're they're the maker of Claude. Did
you hear what he was saying the other
day in the article he wrote about his
concerns?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I I saw at Davos.
>> Yeah. He wrote it just after he left
Davos. Um Daria Amed.
>> Yeah.
>> He said, "Humanity is about to be handed
almost unimaginable power, and it is
deeply unclear whether our social,
political, and technological systems
possess the maturity to wield it. I
believe we are entering a right of
passage, both turbulent and inevitable,
which will test who we are as a species.
We are considerably closer to real
danger in 2026 than we were in 2023.
If the exponential continues, which is
not certain, but now has a decade long
track record supporting it, then it
cannot possibly be more than a few years
before AI is better than humans at
essentially
>> everything.
>> Everything. The same AI enabled tools
that are necessary to fight autocracies
can be turned inward to create tyranny
in our own countries. There is an
alarming possibility of global
totalitarian dictatorship. AI is so
powerful, such a glittering prize that
it is very difficult for human
civilization to impose any restraints on
it at all. And he said this remarkable
thing about um in that essay about
imagining if there was an island with
50,000
>> geniuses on it
>> a billion a billion geniuses on it.
>> Yeah.
>> What would happen to society? And I
think there's I don't know like do you
know what I hope I'm really wrong about
this but when I think about this idea
that there's 50 million geniuses on this
brand new island
>> and I ask myself
>> I'm willing to work for free.
>> Willing to work for free. when one
learns something, they all learn
something.
>> You just take that as a first principle.
You go, hm, society is going to be very,
very, very, very different. And maybe
all of the advice we've been giving for
the last 5, 10 years about how to be
successful, how to be an entrepreneur,
how to succeed in business, maybe
>> it's for an economy that no longer
exists. Yeah, we're going for we're
going from a fundamental industrial age
economy to a AI age economy, right? That
is that is different. We will have
different economic models. We also have
a problem of aging. For all of human
history, we've had a small number of old
people at the top and a lot of young
people at the bottom. And we now have
65% of all wealth in the economy is held
by people over 65. And then you've got
the financialized economy and the
government economy which is inflationary
and that they pump money in as stimulus.
So while the entrepreneurs are making
everything cheaper, even free, the
governments are actually inflating the
economy and the financial systems
inflating the economy slightly faster
than productivity gains. Right? So
what's happening is the entrepreneurs
bring down the cost of everything and
the governments and the financial system
top it up with new stimulus. According
to the rules that the government runs
by, as AI creates huge deflationary
impacts, they can actually just inflate
the economy like unbelievably. they can
pump huge amounts of stimulus into the
economy. So this whole idea of um UBI,
universal basic income, it actually
stacks up from economic fundamentals
basics uh principles uh where you can
actually provided you're getting the
productivity gains where things are
costing zero because of AI, you can
actually just pump money into the
economy and give give money away for a
period of time while we're going through
that transition. Hopefully that prevents
massive craziness from unfolding. And
hopefully as a result of having a huge
amount of intelligence, we find really
interesting fun ways to structure
society and do things.
We're not necessarily leaving utopia. We
shouldn't necessarily be grieving the
loss of shitty jobs and grieving the
loss of dehumanizing
low connectivity jobs. We have ruined
the way that we pair bond. We've ruined
the way that we do community. We've
ruined the way that families run. We've
got people working two jobs just to
survive. Like that's not something to be
grieving the loss of. We need a new
system. Maybe AI is going to actually
give us the breathing room that we need
to actually create a system that gets us
back to a little bit towards the way
that humans have flourished.
>> Are we going to go to towards UBI?
>> It seems like in the short term that
would have to be the case. So Sam
Alman's over here working to build open
AI, working 24 hours a day. Let's just
say theoretically.
>> Um we're going to have to take some of
his hard work away and give it to
theoretically we're going to have to
give it to someone who is maybe not
working.
>> Yeah. And I mean Sam Alman, funny
enough, he actually backed a study
called Open Research in 2024 that looked
at the impact of UBI. And it showed that
recipients who received UBI, which is
money basically given to them, worked
fewer hours and earned less money than
the control group. Instead of using the
freedom to find better jobs to improve
their education, many participants
simply dropped off the workforce or
reduced hours for leisure, resulting in
a net decrease in household income
despite cash payments.
>> Yeah, humans want stuff to do. We need a
we need a meaningful struggle. We need
something that we um that we're up to in
the world. And that is that is a very
difficult thing. The likely thing that I
think will probably happen is that these
data center investments will be so
catastrophic financially that
governments will have to bail them out.
And then the governments will have to
own all the data and all the data
centers and then the tech companies will
have to essentially pay royalties back
to the government over long periods of
time to manage this kind of uh
infrastructure buildout. So you'll have
to have something where the government
actually owns the primary asset and that
is the thing that pays for the UBI. I
mean we're we're kind of theorizing and
just kind of
>> we're going to find out.
>> We are going to find out.
>> This is going to be on the internet
someday.
>> The mathematics bend reality at age at
about 2029 once you the financial
engineering required to make this thing
work. You need something like a 45 times
growth in the number of people paying
for subscriptions and the number of
businesses. Like you take something that
is over the last uh 5 10 years there's
been a product that has gone exponential
which is ampic and GLP1 weight loss
drugs the amount of spend to build out
and satisfy that demand is actually
pretty minimal. Those companies spend
about 20% of their revenues building new
factories to produce new GLP drugs.
Right? So capex is about 20% of revenue.
We're seeing with the AI stuff, capex is
hundreds of percent of revenue, right?
So, it is a financial feat that we've
never attempted before.
>> I've had so many founders speak to me
and say, "Why didn't this particular ad
that I ran on this platform work for me?
Maybe the copy wasn't good, the creative
wasn't strong, but usually the problem
is they're not having the right
conversation because that ad never
reached the right person." And if you're
in B2B marketing, that is much of the
game. And this is where LinkedIn ads
solves that problem for you. Their
targeting is ridiculously specific. You
can target by job title, seniority,
company size, industry, and even
someone's skill set. And their network
includes over a billion professionals.
About 130 million of them are decision
makers. So when you use LinkedIn ads,
you're putting your brand in front of
the right people. And LinkedIn ads also
drive the highest B2B return on ad spend
across all ad networks in my experience.
If you want to give them a try, head
over to linkedin.com/diary.
And when you spend $250 on your first
LinkedIn ads campaign, you'll get an
extra $250 credit from me for the next
one. That's linkedin.com/diary.
Terms and conditions apply. We have
finally caved in. So many of you have
asked us if we could bundle the
conversation cards with the 1% diary.
For those of you that don't know, every
single time a guest sits here with me in
the chair, they leave a question in the
diary of a CEO and then I ask that
question to the next guest. We don't
release those questions in any
environment other than on these
incredible conversation cards. These
have become a fantastic tool for people
in relationships, people in teams, in
big corporations, and also family
members to connect with each other. With
that, we also have the 1% diary, which
is this incredible tool to change habits
in your life. So many of you have asked
if it was possible to buy both at the
same time, especially people in big
companies. So, what we've done is we've
bundled them together and you can buy
both at the same time. And if you want
to drive connection and instill habit
change in your company, head to the
diary.com to inquire and our team will
be in touch.
>> Let's bring this back to uh
>> back to reality,
>> the reality of the person listening and
uh the pressing questions they have
about all this stuff and what they
should do. Is there anything else that
you would give people that are listening
right now in terms of advice to be able
to weather the incoming turbulence that
the CEO of Anthropic describes there?
Yeah, look, the things that I know are
good for people is I really believe that
everyone should build a little bit of a
personal brand. So, a personal brand
means that 2 to 20,000 people know who
you are. They know what you do. They
know you what your experiences are like.
They could approach you about an
opportunity that would be a good
opportunity. So, build a bit of a
personal brand. Don't be invisible uh in
this particular time because you know it
is one of your assets which is to take
some of your knowledge some of your
playbooks and to let people know that
that exists. So I think build a bit of a
personal brand. Second one is have a go
at entrepreneurship, right? Join an
entrepreneurial team, do an
entrepreneurial side hustle, read some
entrepreneurial books, watch some
entrepreneurial um videos that are out
there. start the process of thinking,
okay, the school system taught me to be
a standardized uh employee, a
standardized labor. Uh the school system
wanted me to fit in with an office or a
factory, but actually there's this whole
other way of creating value which is
non-standardized called
entrepreneurship. This is spotting
opportunities and coming up with
solutions to it. So, you know, play
around with the game, even if it's a
small game. Like you might notice that
there are dirty cars on the street and
you might say, "You know what? I'm going
to go and knock on doors and wash the
cars and see if I can make a couple
hundred bucks in a day because I've seen
an opportunity. I've seen something
that's wrong and I I'm going to go and
have a go at fixing it."
>> A lot of founders are telling me, Mark
Cuban said the other day that one of the
great opportunities now is
catering for the gap between small
business owners that don't know how to
use AI and helping them learn how to use
AI.
>> Yeah. Huge, right? Join a join a join a
founder team and help them do that. Um
as I said as well 65% of all the
businesses by valuation are people over
65 now. So there is a mathematical
certainty that 2/3 of the businesses
that run the economy by valuation have
to change hands in the next 10 15 20
years. So this is a massive business
opportunity. Uh baby boomers want to get
rid of their businesses. They want to
retire. Baby boomers are willing to fund
you to buy their business if you present
yourself well if you've got a little bit
of a personal brand. So, that's a that's
a huge opportunity. So, look into that.
Um, you know, Cody Sanchez, a mutual
friend of ours, she talks to people all
the time about how to buy a baby boomer
business and and take it over and run
it. So, um, you know, that's a that's a
great opportunity. Play with these toys
called AI tools. Someone has given you a
free iPhone which you can just use
called AI tools um on the free account.
That is such good advice that we don't
hear enough because I think people think
there's where I am right now in my life
and what I do and then there's like Sam
Alman and Elon Musk and I I either I'm
one or the other but actually what I'm
seeing as an employer who's employing we
probably employ I'd say 20 people a
month at current rate.
>> We're hiring 20 more people a month
>> is increasingly on our culture test when
we're screening who the right candidates
are. We're looking for some kind of
evidence that they're playing or messing
around with AI.
>> Yeah.
>> And one of my team members
>> is she was trying to figure out how to
get a 100 different documents
to synthesize and understand the data
within these documents. Now, there's two
types of people I can hire to do that.
There's the old fashioned way of doing
that where someone might sit there for
four or five weeks and try to figure out
how to get an Excel document to have the
right formulas. And then there's her who
we hired. Even though she doesn't have
skills in that particular thing, she has
no experience in it. But because of her
mindset and her agency, she went, "Hm,
maybe I could put this into Claude
Co-work and ask set up an agent to run
this for me
>> by the time dessert came." She pulled
her laptop over to me and showed it to
me. And she goes, "Stephen, I've ran all
those hundreds of documents um into this
file and I can see the sentiment on
every single post you've made on every
single social platform, including every
LinkedIn post you've made over the last
couple of years. And we can see that
actually even though these point posts
get more likes, these ones are actually
the best posts you're doing."
>> She did that by dessert.
>> Yeah.
>> That and I thought there a isn't that
interesting. How do you find people who
have that bias in the modern world where
they lean into change? She's not
curiosity, isn't it?
>> Yeah. It's curiosity, but there's also
something which is like and being fluid
about your identity and what you know.
>> Yes.
>> Which is she has no experience in that.
>> But I can try.
>> I can try.
>> And the one thing for anyone watching or
listening is that don't use AI as a
search tool. Don't use it the way you
used it a year ago. Give AI your hardest
problem and say, "Hey, help me to solve
this problem." So, for example, you
might say, "I'm really struggling with
these areas of my life. Here's all the
data. Here's all the information. Here's
the PDF documents. Here's the, you know,
the the backstory. Help me solve this.
Help me write it. What kind of piece of
software might I be able to use to to to
build here?" I'll give you a real
example. One of our team members used AI
to analyze all the sales calls for the
last 3 months and discovered a huge
opportunity. What they discovered is
that 75% of all of our sales calls, the
person who we were on the phone to
mentioned that their spouse was a
decision maker and that they needed to
talk to their spouse and that decision-m
because it was a family business and
that there was either a spouse or a
family member. There was no point in our
process where we invited collaboration
with other family members. So none of
our sales calls said, "Do you want to
bring someone along to the sales call?
Like would you like to have someone do
that?" The AI analyzed it, discovered
that opportunity, wrote a script as to
how to invite people onto the call so
that that you get all decision makers on
the call and now our sales conversions
are going up dramatically.
>> I think this is the the real bification
in terms of the employment market of
what we're seeing is certain people have
a a positive relationship to disruption
in technology and change. They get
excited by it where others fall into
cognitive dissonance where they they get
so concerned that it's going to take out
their business that they ostrich head in
the sand. And then the these other
people have this in inherent figure out
ability. I could say to a certain team
member of mine, here's a big problem and
they would grab onto this big problem
and even though they have no proficiency
in data or technology or AI or CL, they
will just they'll plug away at it on a
computer and they'll figure it out and
they'll use all available tools, not
their identity, what they learned in
university or their experience as the
only tool in the tool box. That's the
difference between employee mindset and
entrepreneur mindset. Entrepreneurs see
problems as opportunities. They get
excited by problems and they apply the
entrepreneurial process. And employees
say, "Hey, wait a second. I was never
trained for this. I was never told how
to do this. I was not given the rulebook
for this. So therefore, I'll just ignore
it. I'll stay away from it because
problems, it's not my problem." And this
is the big fundamental shift. We need to
say, "Hey, problems are great. We want
problems. And is this problem for me?
How would I test my assumptions? How
would I build something quickly and
cheaply? How would I then test that? How
would they I then scale that? Right? And
it's just those kind of few steps that
if you embrace those entrepreneurial
steps, then life becomes great.
>> I have a contrarian take that I think
writing is actually more important now
than ever before because writing is a
proxy of understanding. And in a world
of AI, what I'm finding when I look at
like my innovation teams or where
breakthroughs are coming from in my
company, it's actually someone had a
really good question.
>> Yes.
>> So they were like, could we
theoretically analyze all of our sales
calls using Claude to see if there's
something interesting in there? Now that
starts with someone understanding sales
calls, understanding the tools that
allow you to analyze them. They have
lots of reference points. They
understand lots of um variant things.
And that means they ask a really great
question. So for me, one of the ways
that I've been um been able to
understand more things is to to write
more often about them.
>> Can I go one step further?
>> And that is a process called pause
reflect document. And pause reflect
document. If you do it correctly, you go
into nature away from noise and away
from technology and you take a pen and a
paper and you sit in nature on a bench
and you just pause and just let some
boredom set in. You reflect on what's
going on. You try and zoom out to the
bigger picture. You do some journaling
and you do some dot connecting where you
say, "What are some of the dots that
have happened in the last 5 years? What
are some of the bigger picture impacts
that I've made? What are some of the
problems that I've struggled with? What
if this was possible? What if that was
possible?" We live in this incredible
fast-paced world where the one thing
that no one allows themselves to do is
to pause, reflect, document with a pen
and paper. And those people who I know
who are doing incredibly well are doing
more and more of this.
>> Yeah.
>> Same same. I mean, you're one of them.
You're a person who's I mean, look at
this.
>> Yeah.
>> This is a lot of books.
>> That's my head.
>> But you tweet every day. You post every
day. You're constantly experiencing
something in the real world, writing it
down to develop your thinking, which
Richard Fryman talks about the process
of understanding where you learn
something, condense it, so an average
person can understand it, then you share
it with the world to collect feedback on
that thought. He said that's the like
the fastest best way to learn. Yeah.
Yeah,
>> but actually in a world of AI where chat
can do all of that for me, we're
deferring our ability to sort of
condense, compress, and understand to an
AI because we think it's creating an
efficiency gain or a productivity gain
in the near term. Like maybe today's
email will will save you 30 seconds, but
that the tax you're paying I think is an
understanding.
>> And understanding is the is a proxy of
therefore, you know, writing great
questions.
>> I find myself writing more. I wrote a
memo this I was up till 2 a.m. last
night writing a memo.
>> Yeah.
which means you were up late thinking.
>> You were thinking clearly and that was
what you were really doing. A great
question I want people to reflect on. I
want them to think about the last 5
years and ask the question when did I do
something special
that impacted a certain type of person.
I can explain how I did it step by step
and how it felt and it would be of
interest to plenty of people. All right.
And that question contains what we
talked about earlier which is lived
experience feelings playbooks and
connecting the dots looking backwards
and actually coming up with some things
that only I can do things that only I
can say. So that that particular prompt
that particular question to sit in
nature and think clearly and memo and
and document and write a memo about it.
You know I I see so many people and you
and I have done this over the last
couple hours. We think so much about the
future and the uncertainty of the future
but a lot of value comes from just
looking backwards and connecting the
dots and then thinking what what is it
that I now know that I want to take
forward and add value to others. sort of
adjacent to that but related is another
thing I think a lot about which is um
trying to get more information and
experiences from a wide set of reference
points because when I think about
innovation generally innovation is the
connection of like two ideas or thoughts
or principles that someone else hasn't
put together so I think about the like
non-stick frying pan it was a guy who
was fishing and was trying to make get a
material so his tackle his fishing
tackle didn't stick together and his
wife walks past allegedly and says, "I'd
love some of that stuff on our pans."
And that ends up selling tens and tens
of millions of non-stick pans. And even
the even when you think about the
iPhone, that was a combination of a of
an internet device,
>> a music device,
>> and a telecommunications device
>> put together, which you rarely found
those three things in one space. Three
different reference points. To achieve
that, someone would have had to
understand music, the internet, and
phones.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And even Steve Jobs himself,
his skill stack contains typography and
design which is why why he was able to
disrupt Blackberry.
>> He stumbled into a calligraphy class at
university and loved calligraphy and he
was the first company to ever have fonts
and those fonts became a huge
differentiator on the first Mac and it
was only because he had like combined
calligraphy with uh with with computers
he created the font uh idea.
>> So maybe the future's owned by the wide
not the narrow in this regard.
definitely become more of a generalist,
become more curious and go out of your
comfort zones, right? The the industrial
age asked us to simply specialize and do
one thing over and over. The grandfather
of capitalism is a guy called Adam Smith
and he said ultimately efficiency is
about doing one thing in the process
over and over and over, but he said it's
going to destroy the human spirit. He
actually wrote about the fact that that
destroys the human spirit. having to
just twist this knob over and over that
creates the most value in the economy,
but it's horrible for you as a human.
And what and he recognized that problem
from the very beginning. What we've been
trained to do is just twist the knob,
twist the knob, twist the knob, do the
same thing over and over. What we need
to relearn how to do is allow us to
become more human and say, "Actually,
I'm going to explore nature. I'm going
to explore this weird passion that I
have for um, you know, particular
theater companies and how they run. I'm
going to go and explore this thing about
like entrepreneur accelerators. Um, you
know, I'm going to combine things. It's
those rare combinations and you need to
trust your instincts that you're
actually pulling on a few threads and
bringing them together. I do that while
still focusing on a job, etc. Because I
do this for a living.
>> So, I get to sit here, you know, someone
walked in before you and they were
talking to, you know, Alex Honold was
talking to me in that chair before you.
That's why the little taipe statues
behind us about, you know, then you've
talked to me today about this, then the
next person will talk to me about
neuroscience and bringing a human brain.
And that's allowed me to kind of connect
these interesting reference points. What
I'm saying here is you don't need to
like
>> quit your job and go and live in Peru to
to to orchestrate your life in such a
way. I think you just need to be really
intentional about resisting the urge to
be a narrow person and to identify too
much with one's identity. And so when I
left my former business, one of the
chapters I wrote my book is how do I now
resist all my labels? Because now I'm a
social media CEO. And it's so tempting,
>> yeah,
>> to gather around social media people, go
to social media parties, put it in my
bio, get social media opportunities, and
just go further and further and further
down that narrow line. So that's why I
went and worked in psychedelics and
biotech. I worked in cancer biotech. I
started to DJ. I started a podcast
called The Diary of a CEO. I tried to do
as many things as I possibly could to
remain wide. Yeah. And your superpowers
are extra superpowers when you take them
somewhere new.
>> So if you've got social media
superpowers within the social media
bubble, everyone's got those
superpowers. But if you go and take them
into a completely new place, you
discover that actually what you what you
learned over here becomes a massive
differentiator over here.
>> Is there anything else the audience need
to know about the big opportunities you
see as we head into the future?
>> We all want the future to be bright. We
all want the future to be uh amazing and
we love the idea of trying to improve
the world. One of the best ways to
improve the world is to improve your own
situation because the world is made up
of people who have their own situation.
You know when we try and fix every
problem on the planet it feels
completely crushing and it feels so much
weight on your shoulders. when you
actually say what's my opportunity like
if I could if I improve the world by
building myself a really great business
that helps a few people that helps 500
clients do something and if I'm actually
out there adding value in my unique way
and I'm finding a way through this AI
weird adventure that we're going on
that's actually helping the world right
so you're bringing yourself forward
you're discovering something I really
want people to resist the trap of trying
to fix everyone and fix everything try
and figure out what is your opportunity
What is your way of adding value to
others? What is your way of getting
paid? What is your way of doing creative
entrepreneurship? Uh what's your
contribution to the world? And that is
actually a contribution.
>> Is that difficult to do? Because I think
it assumes certain level of
self-awareness that is not always easy.
>> If you find it difficult to do, find
someone who inspires you and see if you
can join their team. So that's totally a
valid move as well, right? just get onto
a team where someone's figuring this
stuff out. Um, you know, follow your
inspiration and sometimes your
inspiration is to start something.
Sometimes your in inspiration is to help
propel something forward, being part of
someone else's team who does inspire
you. Self-awareness is is a skill that
we all have to learn. We're all on a
crash course with reality. Every single
one of us is on a crash course with
reality. There's a lot of narrative on
on the internet that everybody can live
their dream, you know, and I
wonder whether every it's good I wonder
whether it's good advice to tell
everybody to like quit their job and
pursue their dream.
>> I believe that the new size of business
that makes the most sense is small and
dynamic and lean and is probably close
to 10 to 50 people. Um, and that is the
new size of company that is really
shaking things up and doing stuff. In
fact, it's probably 2 to 20 people. I
think that being part of a small,
dynamic, vibrant, entrepreneurial team
is a great place for people to go and
have a look and explore. Does that mean
that everyone's suitable to quit their
job and go start something from scratch
with a blank piece of paper? Probably
not, right? That's that's a particular
role called the founder. Not everyone's
ready to be a founder. In the same way,
everyone could probably get a black belt
if they if they joined a martial arts
and stuck with it. But not everyone can
start as a black belt. That's not where
you start
>> even in those numbers. So if we said
everyone's gonna have, you know, a team
of 10 to 50, those numbers suggest that
one in 50 or one in 10 people are going
to be a founder.
>> Possibly a lot more people are going to
be founders. I really believe a lot more
people are going to be founders. I also
don't think it's wildly unnatural to be
a founder. If you go through all of
history, most people worked in little
family businesses. That was actually the
vast majority of people. Mo, you know,
most businesses never got past 30
people. That our natural way of being is
in family groups and tribal groups and
little groups of less than 150 people.
We've built up this idea that to be a
founder means Steve Jobs, Elon Musk or
something massive like that and that
you're trying to build something that
changes the world. I've got so many
friends and clients who it's them, their
assistant, and uh someone who's like
head of customer development, and
there's three or four of them, and
they're having a great time, and they're
doing 600, 700 grand worth of revenue,
and they got loads of flexibility.
Everyone takes their kids to school.
Everyone finishes up at 4 4 p.m. Um they
can travel, they can live and work
anywhere. Um you know, that's really
cool. This is your most recent book,
Lifestyle Business Playbooks: How to
Have Fun, Freedom, and Fulfillment with
Your Own Business. You've written a lot
of books. You could have written a book
about anything. What's this book about
and who is it for?
>> This book is about the times that we're
living in, right? So, what I'm trying to
do, I'm trying to give people some hope.
There's such a negative narrative that
AI is going to wipe out everything and
that technology is going to destroy
everything and that, you know, all this
negativity about the times that we're
in. I'm trying to create a
counternarrative that actually more than
any other time in history, you could
live and work from anywhere. You could
have a group of 500 to a few thousand
clients all over the world. You could
add value to people in a unique and
interesting way. You could have a career
that's based on randomness and
creativity and fun. And that there are
some new rules to play by. and that if
you learn the playbooks of
entrepreneurship and if you learn the
trends that are unfolding that actually
it could work out really really well for
you.
>> A lot of people want to, you know, they
want a side hustle, they want passive
income. What's your general perspective
on the reality of being able to generate
passive income and a side hustle? I
think passive income reflects people's
desire that they currently feel that
they're working really hard and they
hate work and they hate going to work
and that earning money is a horrible
thing and therefore they just wish it
would just kind of take care of itself.
The truth is that when you discover what
I would call a lifestyle business where
you work a reasonable amount of time and
you have a lot of fun with great people,
you don't necess the as if by magic the
desire for passive income just
evaporates. you go, "This is this is
better than passive income because I'm
on a creative journey and I'm making
great money and I'm having a lot of fun
and I'm expressing myself." I think
passive income ultimately comes from
assets. It's not it's not passive
income, it's asset income. Um, you're
either going to have to create an asset,
which could be a business that is a
digital asset. Um, or you make so much
money in your lifestyle business that
you own traditional assets like houses
or stocks and shares and all that sort
of stuff. Um, but I'm not really
focusing people on the idea of passive
income. I'm focusing on the idea of
having a lifestyle business that
supports the way you want to live.
Anyway,
>> a lot of people would would want that,
but they're scared, right? They're
scared that they have to quit their job
and I've got a mortgage to pay. I've got
kids. So, it's easier said than done,
Daniel.
>> Yeah. So, that that's why in the
playbooks, playbook one is called a side
hustle or an apprenticeship. So, an
apprenticeship, let's say let's say you
currently earn $100,000 a year for uh a
really big corporate, but you know
that's not your future. An
apprenticeship might be that you join
four boards for 20 25,000 each and you
actually work with some startups that
are more entrepreneurial and you take a
position where you have four companies
that are paying 25 grand. So you still
earn 100 grand a year but now you've got
four smaller startups that you're
learning from and they're learning from
you and you're learning from them. So
that's that's a version of an
apprenticeship. Um, an apprenticeship
could also be that you go from working
for a big traditional company to getting
a job that pays almost as much but with
a smaller, more interesting business
that you can learn from a founder. A
side hustle is where you do stuff on the
side and it's open and shut. You build
your entrepreneurial confidence. So
those are like starting points and then
after that and the these are not
designed to make a big leap financially.
After that we talk about a twoerson
scout team scouting an opportunity. We
talk about a fourperson fire starting
team getting something started. We talk
about an eightp person core team running
a really cool little lifestyle business.
So it it it's not like people think that
they have to go from zero to 100 in one
jump. And it's like no, there are little
steps along the way that make this
really easy.
>> I think uh it's really important with
all of this advice to like know your
nature and to know who you are and kind
of honestly to like know what you want
from life,
>> which a lot of people don't and they're
handed what they want from life from
like scrolling on Instagram or LinkedIn.
and they cool
>> I need to build a $5 billion AI company
etc. I think I've I've noticed with
myself that I started a business. I was
really I was ambitious about the goals
for that business and then you know I
ran that business for some time. I left
that business when I was what 20 maybe
20 years old. Went to work in Silicon
Valley as basically a consultant.
>> Mhm.
>> And that was okay for a time being but
then eventually I realized that
>> the money really doesn't m it's really
about like doing it with people you like
and having a and having a challenge. So
that then led me back into the ambitious
building businesses. Did that for six
years. But big big business around the
world
>> and then left that and then I went
through a period where
>> I guess I was kind of a consultant
freelancery type guy for a while again
fundamentally unfulfilling for me.
>> Yep.
>> Because going on a mission with a group
of people, an audacious mission really
regardless of what it is that filled me
up. It was never really about the money.
>> A lot of people discover this. A lot of
people discover that more is not better.
Uh, a lot of people discover that bigger
is not more fun. Do
>> you know what else they discover? They
discover that their idea of independence
and freedom is also not what they
thought. And this is like a quite a
contrarian take, but I have more
responsibility now than I've ever had.
>> Yeah.
>> I could choose less responsibility, more
freedom, and I would be less satisfied
and less fulfilled in my life.
>> Totally. Look at rich kids. They've
they've got everything taken care of,
and there's all this financial resource
around them, and there's nothing for
them to do. They live in a constant
state of depression. We love
responsibility. We love creative
tension. Uh we love being up to
something in the world. There's nothing
greater than being up to something to
being on a mission, especially with a
great group of people that you're
traveling through life with that you're
on this rock with. Um and you find your
group of people that you want to be up
to something with and you natter and you
solve and you get curious and you run
ideas past each other and you voice note
at 2:00 in the morning. You know, that's
that's where the juice is. That's where
the joy is. Um there's a chapter in
there that says know when enough is
enough. And it says that a huge part of
the times that we're in is you know we
live in a time of endless scrolling.
There's no cue that says you've been
scrolling long enough you know go to
bed. And it's same with business that we
think bigger would be better. Having a
bit bigger business another you know
another product another thing another uh
million would make you happier. And the
truth is it's it's not the it's normally
not the case. Well, what is the case
though is that we all need increasing
levels of challenge. It seems to me, you
know, this is why crosswords get more
difficult and video games get have
levels because they realize through the
studies that when something becomes
incrementally more difficult, you drop
into a flow state and motivation
increases and if it doesn't, then you
lose motivation. And so, I think this is
why even in my life, like I'm striving
to make things bigger and better because
it's actually just a proxy of like I
want to be challenged.
>> Well, there's a couple of things. You
can either go really big with one thing
and just be really really focused or you
can have challenge across a portfolio of
interests. One thing that is happening
to your generation, if I can be so bold,
cuz I'm just 15 years older or whatever,
is that you've taken all the energy that
normally went into kids and you're
putting it into business, right? And the
normal natural thing that is meant to
happen around this age is that you're
meant to struggle with a business or
struggle with a way of providing and
also struggle with raising kids and all
that sort of stuff. So there's this
reservoir of creative energy that is
meant to be divided amongst a few
projects. And I'm seeing a lot of people
that that misplaced maternalism or
paternalism goes into just one thing and
then we're expecting to get the joy and
the fulfillment that would normally come
back from family
>> and we wonder why that's missing. You
know, it's like, oh, I'm pouring myself
into the creation of these companies and
they're proxies for kids. And it's like,
why don't I feel this warmth back? Cuz
your biology is not wired to receive
warmth back from something other than a
kid. So this is happening because we're
not having we're not having kids. So one
of the things that uh well one of the
things I encourage everyone to do is
have kids because it's the best thing
ever and to have a portfolio of
interests that you don't have to
struggle to get to a billion. You could
say, you know what, the business
bucket's full at 3 million and I'm
really really happy with a revenue of 3
million in a team of 10 and now I want
to have a portfolio of interests that
includes health and fitness or travel or
teaching at a local uh you know youth
group, you know, or I want to play a
bigger role in my church. Like there's
all these other things that you say,
okay, these are the portfolio of
interests that that are more human.
>> Lifestyle business playbook. going to
link this book below for anyone that
wants to give it a read who is compelled
by the lifestyle that Dan has described
there where you can have fun, freedom
and fulfillment with your own business.
As you know, Daniel, cuz this is, I
think, is your seventh time being on
this podcast. Record breaker. We have a
closing tradition. The question that has
been left for you is, what fear have you
overcome to become who you are today?
You know, I grew up on the Sunshine
Coast. Uh, I dropped out of school or I
dropped out of university. I've got zero
qualifications.
Um,
I'm not particularly good at anything in
particular. I've got no skills. Yeah,
there's me at 21. I tell you, this was a
huge fear. Running my first ad in the
newspaper. I put everything on a credit
card just to run an ad in the newspaper
for $8,000. and it had to work or else I
was in serious trouble.
>> I've had a weird 25 years. I've boom
busted over and over again. Um, so I had
a massive boom in my early 20s, built a
$10 million company rapidly and then
lost it. And then I built another
multi-million dollar business and then
lost it. And then I got wiped out by a
co experience and had to reinvent the
business. And then I had a negative
experience with a co-founder and had to
reinvent the team. So I've had these
kind of like huge forif for for the
first 15 years it was boom bust boom
bust boom bust and the fear was is that
it would never feel a sense of
fulfillment. I'd never get to a place
where I could actually say it was all
worth it. Um and to just keep going and
going and going when I felt exhausted uh
was a massive thing. You know have a
family.
>> Yeah. and the fear of will I be able to
provide for the family and the fear of
uh will my business ideas be valued by
anyone else other than myself? Am I
doing something stupid? Am I doing
something um that will fail again? So,
it's been a lot of fear. Um but you know
what? It's been a wonderful journey that
every time I've pushed through that
fear, we get to the other side. And
actually, it's better on the other side.
It's even better. Had you known how hard
it would be, do you think that
21-year-old Daniel would have done it?
>> I don't think I had any other choice.
>> But if I'd sat that Daniel down and I'd
say, "Daniel, this is what's going to
happen in the next 20 years. You're
going to go up and then you're going to
lose it all. Then you go up, you lose it
all. You're going to feel like this at
this moment. It's going to be the worst
day. Then you're going to feel like this
and then this and then this and you're
going to be working hard the whole time.
Then you're going to lose faith."
Would you have done it?
>> Secretly, yes. And the reason for that
is I kind of I kind of like the roller
coaster. Feel like I needed to go
through boom bust boom bust boom bust
because I I secretly didn't want a
straight line. I think I think I
actually want the the the I want the
more interesting story. At 24, I was
offered $14 million for my company. Uh
and I blew it. I I screwed up the
negotiation and we ended up all walking
away from the deal. I think it would
have been the worst thing possible had I
had $14 million at uh at age 24.
>> So I've drawn a a little graph here on
this iPad. One axis is your success and
the other axis is time. Could you draw
for me what your career looks like in
terms of success over time including the
ups, the downs, etc., etc.
>> Well, if we just talk objectively what
other people would have seen. Um I do
this nightclub party and that's amazing.
And then I go and I get a job with a
mentor and then we build this business
that's like 6 million in its first year
and I'm like right close to it and we go
from zero to like 60 employees and then
I have a fight with my mentor and he
tells me go start your own business. So,
I go right down to start from scratch
again and I'm in I'm in a really
negative place. And then we get started
and suddenly I've got myself a
multi-million dollar business. And then
the government changes the law and we
have to reinvent that business. And then
we get a new amazing contract and now we
do a million a month. And this, by the
way, this is only like age 24. And then
we screw up the negotiation and it's
right back to the start. And then I go
to London and I start a new business.
And that goes really really well really
quickly and like one year in we've got
the palladium theater and we're doing
hundreds of thousands a week worth of
sales and then the global financial
crisis resets the whole business and I
lose the major contracts that we have
and and then I relaunch the business and
then co comes along and we're by by this
stage we're in uh 11 cities doing a
couple of million per city and then I
relaunch the business as a digital
business and it goes off the scale again
right I'm running out of space here and
Now we've figured out, okay, we own the
assets, we own the brand, uh we've got a
great team, we've got multiple
businesses, and at the moment, and this
is around the time I have kids as well,
and it and it starts to really uh become
more stable and more fun and uh less up
and down. But that was my starting
point. Up, down, up, down, up, down.
>> And this is over the period of how many
years?
>> This was this was from 20 to 35. It was
just boom bust, boom bust, punch in the
face, get back up, punch in the face,
get back up. Uh, zero millions, zero
millions, zero millions. I say all of
this because I think it's important to
people for people to realize the reality
of what it takes and how hard it is.
And, you know, oftent times if we want
to get, you know, have a high performing
podcast or write a great selling book,
we kind of describe it as a linear
journey. you're going to do this, then
you do this, then this is going to
happen, then you do this. Stick at it
for long enough, and then and then why?
But actually, in my experience, the
graph either looks like a boom and bust
cycle, which is kind of what I'm seeing
here in your graph, or it looks like
nothing, nothing nothing, nothing
nothing, something exponential.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> I mean, even this podcast, if you look
at the graph, it is nothing, nothing,
nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing,
nothing exponential.
>> 2 million, 4 million, 8 million, 16
million. Yeah. And so the question for
me always becomes like what would it
take for you to survive either in your
story this boom and bust scenario
>> or in many of the things I've done in my
life this no man's land
>> period of no it takes a certain
something in someone
>> Yeah
>> to be able to weather such a storm and
well I guess what what is that you said
a second ago I had no choice. Yeah, I
had no choice because I have no skills.
I'm not good at anything. You know, I've
got friends who are good at coding or
good at editing or they're good at
designing. They've got accounting or
they've got dentistry or something like
that to fall back on. I have no
qualifications. I've got a driver's
license is my only qualification. Um,
and I'm all I'm good at is organizing
teams and getting people in the room and
getting them excited and essentially
encouraging them to work with me and and
build something together. So, I kind of
didn't have a choice but to keep playing
the game, keep trying.
>> And by the way, I wouldn't change any of
that. Like, there's there's no point
there where I'd go back and say,
"Actually, cuz where where I am now,
every single one of those crushing drops
is where I really learned something that
I leverage today." actually something I
said to someone who works in my team as
my business partner now, George Gibson,
when she emailed me two years ago asking
me to invest in a startup, a startup
that I myself had failed at. I basically
was trying to say, "This is not going to
work, but do it anyway because the
actual thing of value here might not be
the million-dollar exit. It's going to
be the lessons you learn from the
failure are going to then be leveraged
as I did at 20 years old when I went to
Silicon Valley and started talking to
people about this thing. I'd spent two
years failing and was getting paid
$70,000 a month to talk about this thing
as a 20-year-old with no qualifications
because I was one of the very few people
who had failed in social media and
therefore had a deep understanding and a
rare skill. You're no longer going on
BBC News night or in Forbes as the
person who did this, but of all the
things you've done in your life, this
great failing is going to be the most
valuable asset you have. And this is
what your story proves because every
time it goes higher.
>> Yeah, it really does. Yeah, it was it
was amazing. like the the like I can
tell you what the moments feel like at
the bottom and they're horrible and
alcohol's involved and uh you know like
wanting to just completely hide and you
know never be seen by anyone ever again
and then suddenly you go okay I mean
I've got this friend of mine who who's
an entrepreneur who's failed several
times and he says you feel like you're
on a tight rope and then you fall off
the tightroppe and you realize it was
only 6 in off the ground you know it's
not as bad as you think and you can hop
back on the tight rope and go and you
can go again But
every single time it's just gotten
better and better and better and bigger
and bigger and more more stable and more
like reliable.
>> There is another story which is one that
doesn't have the survivorship bias
because now Daniel, you've been wildly
successful. Walk down the street, people
know who you are. They, you know, you've
got millions of people that tune in to
watch you give advice. But there's also
a version of reality where that wasn't
the ending.
And I actually know someone who has
fought for 15 years to build businesses
all across the world
>> and they they just don't have that
self-awareness piece.
>> Mhm.
>> I don't know if I'm self-aware. Like
none of us can actually know cuz that
requires self-awareness.
>> We've all got our blind spots.
>> They'll continue to start businesses and
it's putting their family at risk now.
>> They go through the same boom and bust
cycle, but it never goes higher.
>> Y
>> and if you were to ask me objectively,
do I think they'll ever have the moment
you've had now? You have a survivorship
bias that I have. We did something, it
was hard, and then it paid off.
>> Here's the thing. There are no happy
endings. Uh, life ends abruptly.
One thing that happens when you get a
little older is you start discovering
that actually when when you're under 40,
you think everything ends well. And then
later on, you discover there are no
happy endings. Everyone dies. You get a
phone call one day and someone who is an
amazing person has a stroke.
And that's them. That's them hit. That's
that's it. What you thought of that you
thought they'd have 20 more years and
they don't. You know, their entire life
changes.
You you're left with the realization
that it's just an adventure. Sometimes
sometimes the happy ending that other
people would call as a happy ending or
an objective happy ending is actually
pretty miserable in the middle of it.
There are people who have everything.
you've met them and objectively they
have the houses and the cars and the
private jets and all that sort of stuff
and they're not particularly happy.
They're miserable. And then there are
some people who they lose all of that
stuff, but then they reconnect with a
group of friends and they're like
happier than they've ever been.
>> Something's given you this insight.
>> Yeah. So, someone very close to me, very
dear to me, recently had a stroke, you
know, and
yeah, you realize that the happy ending
is not guaranteed. In fact, the opposite
is guaranteed. you realize everyone
everyone dies, everyone decays, everyone
gets old. If you're lucky, you get old.
Uh and if you're unlucky, you don't get
old. Um so you have to there comes a
point where you have to release the idea
that you're going to have this happy
ending. You're going to have moments of
triumph and moments of disaster. You're
going to lose people. You're going to
have everything taken from you. It's
guaranteed everything is taken from you.
>> How did that change your perspective?
this loved one going through this,
>> you you realized that uh
you real or I realized that the mental
timeline of endless decades spreading
out ahead, endless amounts of health,
endless amounts of relationships
is not it's a it's a nice fantasy that
keeps us together, but it's not
guaranteed. And then the impact for me
is to treasure relationships.
Um there comes a moment
where I don't know if this has ever
happened to you yet, but you go, "Wow, I
didn't know that was the last
conversation."
Um, you don't realize this, but one of
the legacies that you leave behind, not
you because you've got this body of
work, but one of the legacies that
people leave behind is little voice
notes that they leave in your phone that
they leave in your WhatsApp
and
you listen back to some of these voice
notes and you go, "Wow, I didn't know
that was a treasure. Didn't know that
was a special thing." Um, and this
particular person who got impacted with
the stroke, he was wonderful at voice
notes. He he had this thing that he
would do called uh, it's not lost on me,
voice notes. And I don't even think he
knew he was saying this, but it was his
one of his favorite phrases, which was
it's not lost lost on me. So he'd he'd
leave a voice note and he'd say,
"Stephen, it's not lost on me how much
you're dealing with at the moment and
it's not lost on me that you are
responsible for a lot of people's lives
and all this and I just want to
acknowledge you." So, so he would leave
these voice notes and um and he did this
with everyone like it came out of the
woodwork that everyone got these lovely
voice notes from this guy and um
yeah, you you don't realize but like
literally that is a huge part of
people's legacies. You think you're
going to leave behind all this money.
You think you're going to leave behind
all of this big stuff. You think you're
going to leave behind some huge
financial structure. And in the end, you
leave behind some really touching voice
notes as as one of the things that will
be most treasured if you're lucky.
>> You've been listening to the voice
notes?
>> Yeah, I have. Yeah. Yeah. Really, really
nice. Really, really nice.
>> What is that emotion in your face,
Daniel? What's the range of emotions?
Um, it's just the deeper awareness that
the the the real, you know, we talk a
lot about technology, we talk a lot
about business,
but the whole game is relationships.
>> It's very easy to get that wrong,
>> isn't it?
>> Very easy for you to get that wrong
>> because um you're surrounded by such a
whirlwind.
And
people want so much from you. You know,
a lot of people want a lot from you. And
you think you have to lift people up
around you and you have to do this
heroic effort. Actually, little text
message, little voice note means a lot.
It's interesting. You for me, I figured
out that we're that we're on a rock. We
get a few little laps around the sun.
That's it. We get this. We like
literally pop into existence like an
electron spinning around a a neutron,
whatever it is, and we we get we're
we're on the rock. The most valuable
thing is that we're on the rock
together. Like you zoom out enough,
we're all just little dots. We're all
just little dots trying to figure stuff
out. Um and we're all trying to make
sense of our own lives and we're all
trying to ignore how, you know,
difficult things can be. And um but then
you realize that it's just the fact that
we are moving through time together. But
yeah, you you as I said, you hit a point
where you realize that uh there is no
happy ending. Unfortunately, there's not
uh you you you know the the ending is
sad. When you hit a certain age, people
that you really love get old get old and
die or they get illnesses. They lose a
big chunk of themselves in one fell
swoop. So, um, while those moments are
happy, while you've got those happy
moments, treasure those happy moments.
Really, really embrace them.
>> Do you have any regrets in this regard
that might help me avoid having similar
regrets?
>> I really don't. I'm really, really happy
that things like I'm really
the biggest relationships are with my
kids and with my wife and family
formation.
I've I've had unbelievably high highs.
Like I've been on the big boats. I've
flown on the private jets. I've had
parties in my honor. I've had big
paydays.
All of that cool stuff that people dream
of. Family formation is where like the
core the core of it. Like that's the
core of happiness for me, you know, the
the the intergenerational passing of
life. Uh which is which is kind of like
wow. like that that we I think we've
forgotten how cool that is. I think
we've forgotten the idea that you're
passing on consciousness and that this
being has their own consciousness. They
do their own thing. They come up with
their own ideas. They have their own
challenges. Um yeah, it's wild.
>> Daniel, thank you. We're done.
>> That was great. YouTube have this new
crazy algorithm where they know exactly
what video you would like to watch next
based on AI and all of your viewing
behavior. And the algorithm says that
this video is the perfect video for you.
It's different for everybody looking
right now. Check this video out and I
bet you you might love